Privacy is becoming a more pressing issue in the Internet 
architecture. There are several reasons for this, including new or 
proposed legistlation in various countries, the Internet becoming more 
ubiquitous and mobile, and changes in people's expectations. 
Furthermore, there are many different perspectives on network-related 
privacy, and some of these are based on different expectations with 
respect to privacy in different countries and cultures.


The BOF has three distinct goals:

1. To initiate long-term architectural discussion on privacy within 
the community. One possible outcome of this would be chartering of a 
privacy research group at the IRTF. The goal of this work is to define 
exactly what network-related privacy means and to understand the
breadth and depth of the problem.

2. To initiate shorter-term work to define how to implement and use 
the existing protocols in such a way that the privacy-sensitive 
information, such as a user's more-permanent network-layer identity, 
is not unnecessarily revealed, thereby compromising their network
privacy. It is envisioned that a new working group crossing the 
Security and Internet Areas might be a suitable forum for this work, 
and that if such a working group is formed, it could also act as a 
common discussion forum to help in co-ordinating protocol-specific 
work; see the next item.

3. To briefly discuss some specific needs to modify existing 
protocols, such as Mobile IP, in order to improve their privacy 
properties. As a baseline, it is assumed that such work would probably 
be best conveyed in existing working or research groups, such as MIP4, 
MIP6 or MOBOPTS, whenever there is an active group for the protocol at
hand.

The focus of the proposed work will be on protecting communicating 
parties' privacy against eavesdroppers and other third parties. 
Therefore, unlinkability of various identifiers used in protocols is 
an important matter; see below. Focus will be on the internetworking 
layer (IP protocols) and layers close to it, with less attention paid
to specific applications or physical layer issues. While it is 
necessary to understand link layer issues, proposals to change 
existing link layer protocols or to define new link layer protocols is 
explicitly out of scope.

Location privacy in the sense of keeping location related information, 
such as the IP address, of a mobile host private from its active peers 
is explicitly out of scope. However, location privacy in the sense of 
keeping a given mobile user's location-related information private 
from third parties, i.e. hosts and nodes with which the node does *not*
have active communication with, falls within the proposed scope.
