ecrit is working on citizen-to-authority calls.  Alerts that are sent
from "authorities" (which we define broadly to any level of authority,
including, for example, a school administrator) to "citizen" (which we
also define broadly to include visitors and other individuals and
groups) are of great interest.  Many efforts are underway in other fora,
but all of them are stovepipes: limited by which authorities can invoke
alerts as well as which networks they can be distributed on.  What is
needed is a more flexible way to deliver alerts from any notifier to any
interested or affected individual, via any device connected to the
Internet. 

This is a large problem: some alerts must be delivered to an enormous
number of endpoints; a Tsunami warning may involve millions of devices
eventually.  A system which can deliver messages to billions of
endpoints with one notification are obviously attractive attack
targets.  This is further complicated by the desire to accept
notifications from a wide variety of notifiers, complicating
authentication mechanisms that might be employed.  The security
implications of any solutions must be addressed as a intergral part of
the solution from the very start of the work.   

Classic alert systems typically use layer 2 broadcast mechanisms and
often use some kind of location as a criteria for who gets the alert. 
On the Internet, multicast mechanisms may be helpful, but the paucity of
multicast deployment must be considered.  Besides broadcast, 
which certainly is very appropriate, it is very useful to be able to
subscribe to events for individuals who may not normally meet criteria
for being included in a broadcast.  For example, parents may wish to
receive alerts that affect their children.  An alert directed to anyone
in the path of a hurricane may be broadcast, but the parent may need 
a subscription to get the same alert when they are not in the affected
area. 

The content of an alert is also a significant challenge to Internet
scale alerts.  The alert must be rendered on a wide variety of devices
with different user interface capabilities.Multiple languages have to be
accomodated.  Networks with limited bandwidth must be
considered.  

Alert work is being done in many fora, and some is directly applicable
to this work. For example, OASIS work on Common Alerting Protocol is
likely part of the solution. It should also be recognised that this is
an area of work that will be highly regulated and as such close work
with the fora where regulators operate (e.g. ATIS, ETSI and ITU-T) may
help with the deployment of any solutions.  

The purpose of the BOF is to determine the need and scope for authority
to citizen alerts, what existing protocols and mechansims need to be
adapted to meet those needsand the appropriate representation for alerts
should be.

This work could be accomplished within an expanded charter of ecrit, or
a new work groupcould be formed.  This work will leverage geopriv work
on location.
