The major goal of the Benchmarking Methodology Working Group is to make
a series of recommendations concerning the measurement of the
performance characteristics of various internetworking technologies;
further, these recommendations may focus on the systems or services that
are built from these technologies.

Each recommendation will describe the class of equipment, system, or
service being addressed; discuss the performance characteristics that
are pertinent to that class; clearly identify a set of metrics that aid
in the description of those characteristics; specify the methodologies
required to collect said metrics; and lastly, present the requirements
for the common, unambiguous reporting of benchmarking results.

To better distinguish the BMWG from other measurement initiatives in the
IETF, the scope of the BMWG is limited to technology characterization
using simulated stimuli in a laboratory environment.  Said differently,
the BMWG does not attempt to produce benchmarks for live, operational
networks. Moreover, the benchmarks produced by this WG shall strive to
be vendor independent or otherwise have universal applicability to a
given technology class.

Because the demands of a particular technology may vary from deployment
to deployment, a specific non-goal of the Working Group is to define
acceptance criteria or performance requirements.

An ongoing task is to provide a forum for discussion regarding the
advancement of measurements designed to provide insight on the operation
inter-networking technologies.

In addition to its current work plan, the BMWG is explicitly tasked to
develop benchmarks and methodologies for the following technologies:

* MPLS Forwarding: Develop specific methods to characterize the
latency and forwarding performance of MPLS devices, extending the
fundamental recommendations of RFC 1242 and RFC 2544 to this networking
technology.

* SIP Networking Devices: Develop new terminology and methods to
characterize the key performance aspects of network devices using
SIP, including the signaling plane scale and service rates while
considering load conditions on both the signaling and media planes. This
work will be harmonized with related SIP performance metric definitions
prepared by the PMOL working group.
