Calendaring and group scheduling products are well established for 
organizational use, but they usually are limited to exchange of
information among users of the same system, usually within the 
boundaries of a single organization. This working group will pursue
development of standards to enable different products to interoperate 
and to work across organizational boundaries. This work will
include the development of MIME content types to represent common 
objects needed for calendaring and group scheduling
transactions and access protocols between systems and between clients 
and servers. The working group will also consider and
recommend solutions to the security issues concerning the exchange of 
calendar information between network entities. 

The group will exist to create standards that make calendaring and 
scheduling software significantly more useful and to enable a new
class of solutions to be built that are only viable if open standards 
exist. The Calendaring and Scheduling Working Group is
chartered to focus on Internet standards for three basic problems
facing group scheduling and calendaring users today. These include the 
following: 

1. A standard content type for capturing calendar event and to-do 
   information. The content type should be suitable as a MIME message  
   entity that can be transferred over MIME based email systems or HTTP 
   World Wide Web. The basic objects along with their representation 
   using MIME will be specified in the document entitled "Core Object 
   Specification". 

2. A standard peer-to-peer protocol for common calendaring and group 
   scheduling transactions. For example, these may include
   exchanging over the Internet, event-requests, reply to 
   vent-requests, cancellation notices for event-requests, requesting 
   free/busy time and replying to free/busy time requests between 
   different calendaring products. The working group will undertake
   this work in two phases, with the first phase focusing on meeting 
   requests and the second phase on free-busy time. To the extent that 
   the peer-to-peer protocol has requirements related to security, the 
   working group will attempt to apply existing Internet standards for
   authentication, and to assure privacy and integrity of sensitive 
   calendaring information. The protocol for the interoperable  
   transactions will be specified in a document called "Calendar 
   Interoperability Protocol" in the milestone list. 

3. A standard access protocol to allow for the management of calendars, 
   events and to-dos over the Internet. This protocol will be
   specified in the document called "Calendar Access Protocol" in the 
   milestone list. 

This working group effort should be developed and stabilized with a 6-9 
months since there has been considerable prior work done in this area. 
This prior body of work includes: 

* Distributed Scheduling Protocol (CHRONOS) IETF Working Group

* ISO/IEC SC18 Distributed Office Application for Calendaring,
  Scheduling and Appointments

* MHS Alliance Calendaring and Scheduling Interoperability Protocol 
  (CSIP) 

* X.400 API Association (XAPIA) Calendaring and Scheduling API (CSA)
  and Calendaring and Scheduling Interoperabilty Specification (CSIS) 

* X/Open Consortium Calendaring and Scheduling (XCS) Implementor's 
  Specification

* Versit vCalendar format 

The working group will focus on harmonizing, evolving and developing 
protocols and algorithms based on this work. The process is
subject to extension if many new features are added, or more revision
is needed.
