Organizational Overview

The CCAMP working group coordinates the work within the IETF
defining a common control plane and a separate common measurement
plane for physical path and core tunneling technologies of Internet
and telecom service providers (ISPs and SPs), e.g. O-O and O-E-O
optical switches, TDM Switches, Ethernet Switches, ATM and Frame
Relay switches, IP encapsulation tunneling technologies, and MPLS
in cooperation with the MPLS WG.

In this context, measurement refers to the acquisition and
distribution of attributes relevant to the setting up of tunnels
and paths.

CCAMP WG work scope includes:

- Definition of protocol-independent metrics and parameters
  (measurement attributes) for describing links and paths that are
  required for routing and signaling. These will be developed in
  conjunction with requests and requirements from other WGs to
  ensure overall usefulness.

- Definition of protocol(s) and extensions to them required for
  link and path attribute measurement. Link Management Protocol
  (LMP) is included here.

- Functional specification of extensions for routing (OSPF, ISIS)
  and signalling (RSVP-TE) required for path establishment.
  Protocol formats and procedures that embody these extensions will
  be done jointly with the WGs supervising those protocols.

- Definition of the mechanisms required to determine the route and
  properties of an established path (tunnel tracing).

- Definition of management objects (e.g. as part of MIB modules) and 
  OAM techniques relevant to the protocols and extensions specified 
  within the WG.

- Work on traffic-engineering GMPLS mechanisms and protocol
  extensions to support source-controlled and explicitly-routed
  Ethernet data paths for Ethernet data planes that are already
  approved by an Standards Development Organization (SDO) with 
  responsibility for the Ethernet data plane. It is expected that the 
  primary SDO in this case is the IEEE. Note that the specification or 
  modification of Ethernet data planes is out of scope.
- Work on GMPLS mechanisms and protocol extensions to support the
  transport profile of MPLS (MPLS-TP) in cooperation with the MPLS, 
  L2VPN, and PWE3 Working Group and in coordination with the 
  requirements expressed jointly by the IETF and ITU-T.


CCAMP WG currently works on the following tasks:

- Define how the properties of network resources gathered by a
  measurement protocol can be distributed in existing routing
  protocols, such as OSPF and IS-IS. CCAMP defines the generic
  description of the properties and how they are distributed in
  OSPF. The specifics of distribution within IS-IS are being
  addressed in the ISIS WG.

- Define signaling and routing mechanisms and extensions to allow
  path and tunnel setup and maintenance across multiple domains,
  where a domain may be an IGP area, an Autonomous System, or any
  other region of topological visibility. To this end, work
  cooperatively with the PCE and MPLS WGs.

- Define abstract link and path properties needed for link and
  path protection. Specify signalling mechanisms for path
  protection, diverse routing and fast path restoration. Ensure
  that multi-layer path protection and restoration functions are
  achievable using the defined signalling, routing, and measurement
  protocols, either separately or in combination.

- Identify which requirements for signaling and routing for 
  Automatically Switched Optical Network (ASON) are not currently met 
  by protocols defined in CCAMP; based on these, define mechanisms to 
  address these requirements.

- Produce extensions to the CCAMP WG protocols and RFCs necessary
  to create an MPLS Transport Profile (MPLS TP). The work on the
  MPLS TP will be coordinated between the MPLS, L2VPN, PWE3, and CCAMP
  working groups that are jointly chartered to do MPLS TP work.


In doing this work, the WG will work closely with at least the
following other WGs: MPLS, L2VPN, PWE3, ISIS, OSPF, IDR, L1VPN and PCE. 
The WG will also cooperate with the ITU-T and the IEEE 802.1.
