This Working Group will produce a document describing MIB objects for
use in a ``chassis'' --- which is a collection of traditionally
discrete network devices packaged in a single cabinet and power
supply.  A chassis may comprise, for example, combinations of layer 1
repeater elements, MAC layer bridges, or internetwork layer routers.

The Working Group is chartered to produce up to three distinct
documents that define extensions to the SNMP MIB:

(1) The Working Group is chartered to define MIB objects that represent
the mapping of the logical functions of traditional network devices
onto particular, physical hardware resources within the chassis.  These
MIB definitions will not address any aspects of the network functions
comprised by a chassis box that are shared with an analogous collection
of discrete network devices.

(2) The Working Group is chartered, at its option, to define MIB
objects that instrument the operational state of a power supply element
in a chassis.

(3) The Working Group is chartered, at its option, to define MIB
objects that represent aggregated information about collections of
network devices (e.g., aggregate information about devices attached to
a particular LAN), provided that this MIB specification is not specific
to chassis implementations of such networks and is also readily
implementable for analogous collections of discrete network devices.

The MIB object definitions produced will be for use by SNMP and will be
consistent with existing SNMP standards and framework.

Although the Working Group may choose to solicit input or expertise
from other relevant standards bodies, no extant standards efforts or
authorities are known with which alignment of this work is required.

Because the structure of chassis implementations varies widely, the
Working Group shall take special care that its definitions reflect a
generic and consistent architectural model of chassis management rather
than the structure of particular chassis implementations.

Should the Working Group elect to define objects representing
aggregated information about collections of network devices, those
efforts will not compromise the operational robustness of the SNMP that
depends on its realization of management system function as closely as
possible to centers of responsible authority.

