The dhc working group (DHC WG) has developed DHCP for automated 
allocation, configuration and management of IP addresses and TCP/IP 
protocol stack parameters. DHCPv4 is currently a "Draft Standard" and 
is documented in RFC 2131 and RFC 2132. DHCPv6 is currently a 
"Proposed Standard" and is documented in RFC 3315. Subsequent RFCs 
document additional options and other enhancements to the 
specifications.

The DHC WG is responsible for reviewing DHCP options or other 
extensions (for both IPv4 and IPv6). The DHC WG is expected to review 
all proposed extensions to DHCP to ensure that they are consistent 
with the DHCP specification and other option formats, that they do not 
duplicate existing mechanisms, etc. Generally speaking, the DHC WG 
will not be responsible for evaluating the semantic content of 
proposed options. Similarly, the ownership of specifications typically 
belongs the relevant working group that needs more functionality from 
DHCP, not the DHC WG. The DHC WG coordinates reviews of the proposed 
options together with those working groups. It is required that those 
working groups have consensus to take on the work and that the work is 
within their charter. Exceptionally, with AD agreement, this same 
process can also be used for Individual Submissions originating 
outside WGs.

However, the DHC WG can in some cases develop its own options that 
relate to either maintenance of existing specifications or 
improvements in the operation of the DHCP infrastructure itself.

The DHC WG has the following main objectives:

* Develop extensions to the DHCP infrastructure as required to meet 
new applications and deployments of DHCP. The topics currently 
in development are:

- Subnet allocation mechanisms
- Virtual subnet identification option
- Option for passing DNS domain information in DHCPv6
- DHCP relay agent assignment notification in DHCPv6
- Option for DHCPv6 server reply sequence numbers
- Rebinding capability for DHCPv6 Reconfigure messages
- Behavior of layer 2 relay agents

The adoption of new items requires explicit agreement from 
the AD or rechartering.

* Write analyses of the DHCPv4 and DHCPv6 specifications, 
including RFC 2131, RFC 2132, RFC 3315 and other RFCs defining 
additional options, which identifies ambiguities, contradictory 
specifications and other obstacles to development of interoperable 
implementations. Recommend a process for resolving identified 
problems and incorporating the resolutions into the DHCP 
specification.

Secondly, advance DHCPv4 (RFC 2131 and RFC 2132) and DHCPv6 (RFC 
3315) in IETF Standards Track.

Thirdly, specify guidelines for creating new DHCP options, and 
report on the status of DHCPv4 option reclassification. 

* Assess the requirements for a dual-stack host to use DHCP to obtain 
configuration settings for both IPv4 and IPv6. Hosts that include 
implementations of both IPv4 and IPv6 ("dual-stack hosts") may use 
DHCP to obtain configuration settings (including assigned addresses) 
for both IPv4 and IPv6. The DHCPv4 and DHCPv6 specifications (RFC 
2131, RFC 2132, RFC 3315 and subsequent RFCs) do not explicitly 
explain how a dual-stack host uses DHCP to obtain configuration 
settings for both IP stacks. The DHC WG will evaluate solutions for 
configuration of dual-stack hosts through DHCP and select a solution 
that will be developed and published by the WG.

* Hold a discussion whether on-link prefix information and default 
router information is needed in DHCP in addition to router 
advertisements. Actual solutions are out of scope for the WG, 
however.
