The Diameter Maintenance and Extensions WG will focus on maintenance
and extensions to the Diameter protocol required to enable its use for
authentication, authorization, accounting and provisioning in network
access as well as for other applications environments
(e.g., IP telephony, mobility).

The IETF has completed work on the Diameter Base protocol and is
working on revising the base protocol specification. There is on-going
work on defining RADIUS extensions and the DIME WG will ensure
that work done in RADEXT is also available for Diameter.

The DIME working group plains to address the following items:

- Maintaining and/or progressing, along the standards track, the
Diameter Base protocol and Diameter Applications. This includes
extensions to Diameter Base protocol that can be considered as enhanced
features or bug fixes, such NAI routing or capability update extensions.


- Diameter application design guideline. This document will provide
guidelines for design of Diameter extensions. It will detail when to
consider reusing an existing application and when to develop a new
application.

- Diameter QoS extensions. This work focuses on extensions to
Diameter to support QoS information to be authorized and provisioned
in AAA deployments.

- Protocol extensions for the management of Diameter entities. This work

focuses on the standardization of Management Information Bases (MIBs)
to configure Diameter entities (such as the Diameter Base protocol or
Diameter Credit Control nodes). The usage of other management protocols
for configuring Diameter entities may be future work within the group.

- Diameter extensions for mobility protocols, such as Mobile IPv6 and
Proxy Mobile IPv6. Diameter extensions to support handover keying
developed in the HOKEY WG are part of this effort.

- New Diameter applications, such as the Diameter NAT control
application.
This group will also conduct work on new Diameter applications with
a Diameter application for configuring NATs as the first item.

Additionally, AAA systems require interoperability in order to work.
The working group, along with the AD, will need to evaluate
any potential extensions and require verification that the proposed
extension is needed. Coordination with other IETF working groups
and other SDOs will used to ensure this.
