1) To gauge whether or not there is sufficient interest for 
people
	   to step up as document editors. I'm not convinced you
	   can handle locating editors entirely via mailing lists.
	   My experience with standards work indicates that people who
	   volunteer face-to-face are more likely to follow through
	   than those who say so only on a mailing list.

	2) Charter bashing in a public setting. I'm not convinced that
	   this process should happen completely on a mailing list. Not 
that
	   it hasn't or won't for other proposals, just that a BOF seems
	   like a more appropriate venue for this particular type of WG.

	3) There is a definite interest in this type of WG proposal. 
This
	   observation is based on informal interactions with other IETF
	   folks as well as folks from the Defense Messaging System 
Project
	   and the Directories Commitee of the Electronic Messaging 
Association.

	4) There are five primary areas of concern when it comes to 
Directory
	   Deployment:

		a) installed base problems and mitigation strategies

		b) schema inconsistencies and mappings

		c) piloting activities in support of particular 
application use
		   of a directory service (e.g., forward knowledge of
		   certificates and a global white pages service)

		d) co-existance of multiple IETF standards-track 
protocols

		e) help and guidance for the people who deploy 
directories

	5) All of the work items described in the draft charter as 
submitted to
	   the directory-cg@apps.ietf.org mailing list are believed to 
be
	   useful (eventually) based on the experience of the person
	   requesting this BOF as well as based on many discussions with
	   IETFers and other folks. One goal of this BOF is to slice the
	   draft charter down to something more reasonable and focused 
based
	   on what's important enough to tackle _now_. The remaining 
work will
	   be tabled or perhaps pushed off into its own BOF/WG at a 
future
	   IETF meeting if there is sufficient interest to justify such 
work.
