The Distributed Management Working Group is chartered to define an
initial set of managed objects for specific distributed network
management applications which can be consistently developed and
deployed.  A distributed network manager is an applicaton that acts
in a manager role to perform management functions and in an agent
role so that it can be remotely controlled and observed.

Distributed network management is widely recognized as a requirement
for dealing with today's growing internets. A manager application is
a good candidate for distribution if it requires minimal user
interaction, it would potentially consume a significant amount of
network resources due to frequent polling or large data retrieval, or
it requires close association with the device(s) being managed.

The working group will limit its work to distributed network management
applications where the main communication mechanism for monitoring
and control is SNMP. Future work (and other working groups) may be
chartered to investigate other distribution techniques such as CORBA
or HTTP. The objects defined by the working group will be consistent
with the SNMP architecture defined in RFC 2571. The working group
will especially keep security considerations in mind when defining
the interface to distributed management.

The working group will complete these tasks:

Define a Scheduling MIB

Define a Script MIB

Define a Remote Operations MIB

Define an Expression and Event MIB to support Threshold Monitoring

Define a Notification Log MIB

Define an Alarm MIB

The working group will consider existing definitions, including:

o the RMON working group's work in this area

o the Application MIB (RFC 2564), SysAppl MIB (RFC 2287) and
  related standards.

The work on the Alarm MIB will take into consideration existing
standards and practices, such as ITU-T X.733.  Whether any mappings to
these other standards appear in the Alarm MIB or in separate documents
will be decided by the WG.  The WG will actively seek participation
from ITU participants to make ensure that the ITU work is correctly
understood.

It is recognized that the scope of this working group is narrow
relative to the potential in the area of distributed network
management. This is intentional in order to increase the likelihood
of producing useful, quality specifications in a timely manner.
However, we will keep in mind and account for potential related or
future work when developing the framework including:

o Event and alarm logging and distribution

o Historical data collection/summarization

o Topology discovery
