The IETF has been working on various aspects of SIP-enabled Multimedia
administrative domains among SIP Service Providers (SSP's). SSP's are
entities that provide session services utilizing SIP signaling to their
customers. In addition, the IETF has done significant work on data
exchanges among various network elements.

The DRINKS working group is chartered with a scope that is orthogonal to
SPEERMINT and ENUM. The protocol work of DRINKS will be designed to
build from the work of SPEERMINT and ENUM to identify and define the
data structures and data exchange protocol(s) among SIP based Multimedia
administrative domains.

The ENUM working group is specifically chartered to develop protocols
that involve the translation of E.164 numbers to URIs. While the
SPEERMINT working group has been chartered to develop requirements and
best current practices among real-time application SSPs and to describe
how such services may best interconnect across administrative
boundaries.

These administrative domains may be of any practical size and could be
any type of SSP, such as recognized telephony carriers, enterprises,
end-user groups, or Federations. Data exchanges among these
administrative domains may be bi-lateral or multi-lateral in nature, and
could include bulk updates and/or more granular real-time updates.

Administrative domains may exchange data through the use of an external
registry to aggregate data from multiple administrative domains or
multiple data providers into a single view.

The DRINKS WG will provide details of how Session Establishment Data
(SED) is collected, what comprises SED, how SED should be used to
properly identify an optimal path to a destination SIP user agent
(UA),either internally or externally to the SSP. In addition DRINKS will
insure that the SED and the SIP session data is securely exchanged
between the peering functions.

Typical SED data might include:

+ Routes
- Destination SIP/SIPS/TEL URI Egress and Ingress Routes
- Relevant route names, identifiers, and services
- Attributes affecting route selection
- PSTN database information

+ Targets
- Individual, ranges, or groups of user-agent identifiers
- Target aggregation entities (e.g. service areas) and
target-to-aggregate associations

+ Treatment Profiles
- Priority
- Location

Potential SED Data types not in scope will be session rating or other
billing or pricing information between SSP's

The working group will draw upon expert advice and on-going consultation
from the ENUM and SPEERMINT working groups, and also the XML
Directorate.
The working group will consider the reuse of elements of RFC 4114.

The final work product(s) from this working group will utilize and be
based on XML documents and XML document exchanges.
