Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) is a set of protocols for conducting
highly structured inter-organization exchanges, such as for making
purchases or initiating loan requests. The initial RFC1767 defined the
method for packaging the EDI X12 and UN/EDIFACT transactions sets in a
MIME envelope. However, several additional requirements for obtaining
multi-vendor, inter-operable service, over and above how the EDI
transactions are packaged, have come to light since the effort
concluded. These currently revolve around security issues such as EDI
transaction integrity, privacy and non-repudiation in various forms.
Additional requirements that mimic many of the heading fields found in
X.435 EDI messages (e.g.; Interchange Sender, Interchange Recipient,
interchange Control Reference, Communications Agreement ID, and Syntax
Identifier) are also needed to support exchanges by point-to-point, FTP
and SMTP protocols. Many believe these heading fields are best
described in XML. Standards in these and other areas are necessary to
ensure inter-operability between EDI packages over Internet. Various
technologies already exist for these additional features and the 
primary
requirement is to review and select a common set of components for use
by the EDI community when it sends EDI over the Internet.

Deliverables:

AS1 - Applicability Statement describing how current Internet
      standards can be used to achieve this functionality for MIME and
      SMTP. Security supported is object signature and object based
      encryption only. RFC3335.

AS2 - Applicability Statement describing how current Internet
      standards can be used to achieve this functionality for
      Process-to-Process (real-time) EDI based on MIME and HTTP.
      Security supported is object signature, and both session and
      object encryption.(draft-ietf-ediint-as2-xx.txt)

AS3 - Applicability Statement describing how current Internet
      standards can be used to achieve the transfer of EDI or XML
      data over internet in a secure manner based on FTP. Security
      supported is object signature, and both session and object
      encryption.(draft-ietf-ediint-as3-xx.txt)
