The Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) [RFC 3748] is a network
access authentication framework used in the PPP, 802.11, 802.16, VPN,
PANA, and in some functions in 3G networks. EAP itself is a simple
protocol and actual authentication happens in EAP methods.

Over 40 different EAP methods exist. Most of these methods are
proprietary methods, but some are documented in informational RFCs. In
the past the lack of documented, open specifications has been a
deployment and interoperability problem. There are currently only two
EAP methods in the standards track that implement features such as key
derivation that are required for many modern applications.
Authentication types and credentials continue to evolve as do
requirements for EAP methods.

This group is chartered to work on the following types of mechanisms
to meet requirements relevant to EAP methods in RFC 3748, RFC 4017,
RFC 4962 and EAP Keying:

- A mechanism based on strong shared secrets. This mechanism should
strive to be simple and compact for implementation in resource
constrained environments.

- A document that defines EAP channel bindings and provides guidance
for establishing EAP channel bindings within EAP methods.

- Enable TLS-based EAP methods to support channel bindings. This item
will not generate a new method; rather, it will focus on adding
support for EAP channel bindings to the tunneled method (described
below), and if possible, other TLS-based EAP methods. Potential
mechanisms for adding channel binding support will be investigated,
including tunneling of channel binding parameters, or a TLS extension,
or other standard TLS mechanism

- A mechanism to support extensible communication within a TLS
protected tunnel. This mechanism will support meeting the requirements
of an enhanced TLS mechanism, a password based authentication
mechanism, and additional inner authentication mechanisms. It will
also support channel bindings (as described above) in order to meet
RFC 4962 requirements.

- A mechanism that makes use of existing password databases such as AAA
databases. This item will be based on the above tunnel method.
