The ENUM working group has defined a DNS-based architecture and 
protocol
[RFC 3761] by which an E.164 number, as defined in ITU Recommendation
E.164, can be expressed as a Fully Qualified Domain Name in a specific
Internet Infrastructure domain defined for this purpose (e164.arpa).

Background:

E.164 numbers are globally unique, language independent identifiers for
resources on Public Telecommunication Networks that can support many
different services and protocols. There is an emerging desire for
network operators to utilize aspects of RFC 3761 to discover points of
interconnection necessary to terminate communications sessions
identified by a E164 number,in addition to identifying end point
protocols and services.

Working Group Revised Goals and Scope:

1. The working group will update RFC 3761 and advance to Draft 
Standard.

2. The working group will examine and document the use of RFC 3761 to
facilitate network interconnection for services using E.164 addressing.
The working group will coordinate its activities with other IETF 
working
groups, existing or to be chartered, that are investigating elements of
peering and or interconnection for VoIP or other services that 
typically
use E.164 addressing.

3. The working group will continue examine and document various aspects
of ENUM administrative and /or operational procedures irrespective of
whether e164.arpa domain is used.

4. The working group will also examine the use of RFC 3761 technology
for storing and delivering other information about services addressed 
by
E.164 numbers, for example PSTN call routing and signaling data.

5. The Working Group will continue to maintain appropriate contact and
liaison with other standards bodies and groups, specifically ITU-T SG2,
to provide technical or educational information and address, as needed,
issues related to the use of the E.164 numbering plan for services on 
IP
networks. In addition the Working Group will continue to encourage the
exchange of technical information within the emerging global ENUM
community as well as documentation on practical experiences with
implementations, alternate technology uses and the administration and
provisioning of RFC 3761.

6. As described in RFC 3761, the IETF documents and registers the
Enumservices. While extant, it is the ENUM working group that performs
the technical review and development of the Enumservices for the
Internet community. The working group determines whether to advance 
them
and how to progress them technically. Coordination with other WGs will
be taken into account on these.

Other than Enumservices, all proposed deliverables of the working group
will be discussed with and approved by the Area Directors, who may
require wider review due to the broad impact of the subject.
