This working group has defined a DNS-based architecture and protocol 
[RFC2916] for mapping a telephone number to a set of attributes (e.g. 
URI's) which can be used to contact a resource associated with that 
number.

Background: Telephone numbers now identify many different types of end 
terminals, supporting many different services and protocols. Telephone 
numbers are used to identify ordinary phones, fax machines, pagers,
data modems, email clients, text terminals for the hearing impaired, 
etc. A prospective caller may wish to discover which services and 
protocols are supported by the terminal named by a given telephone 
number. The caller may also require more information than just the 
telephone number to communicate with the terminal.
From the call recipient's perspective, the owner of the telephone
number or device may wish to control what URI's, calling parties may 
receive.

The architecture must allow for different service providers, competing
openly, to provision the data base of end point information required by
clients to reach the desired the terminal device or service named by a
telephone number.

Working Group Revised Goals and Scope:

1. The working group will, from a technical viewpoint describe how the
   registry/registrar model used for DNS provisioning could be applied
   to the global ENUM based branches of the DNS hierarchy and document 
   various aspects of ENUM administrative / operational procedures 
   within that context as Informational

2. The working group will update RFC 2916 to reflect the ongoing
   revision of RFC 2915.

3. The working group will consider various aspects of privacy,
   security, validation, authentication and provisioning of the global 
   ENUM branches of the DNS including RFC 2915 (and revisions) records 
   as Informational. Such documents could be used as models for various 
   national implementations of RFC 2916 by the appropriate authorities 
   over those portions of the global ENUM namespace.

4. The Working Group will continue maintain contact and liaison with
   appropriate standards bodies and groups in order to coordinate 
   activities and provide appropriate technical input when required, in 
   particular ITU Study Group 2 and other national ENUM administrative 
   forums. The Working Group, in the sprit of technical exchange, will 
   welcome technical information, updates etc.,  from various national 
   ENUM administration forums, other standards bodies, as well as 
   documentation on practical experiences with implementations of RFC 
   2916.
