Previous IETF efforts developed specifications for simple and extended
Internet mail-based facsimile service profiles, tailored to interwork 
with the world of T.30 facsimile.  This extension effort will take care 
of differential routing between classic Internet mail and timely 
deliveries, and consider with particular regard universal messaging 
issues and its relation with Internet mail.

The WG will produce a final increment of specification for supporting
a "full" equivalence of T.30 service over Internet mail. Technical work
for this effort includes timely delivery, [image] feature 
selection/negotiation, document privacy, and integrated
specification of Full-mode Facsimile Profile of Internet Mail (FFPIM).

For interconnecting fax services over the dial-up telephone network and
carriage of facsimile message data over the Internet, two types of 
interface systems are required:

o Internet/Dial-up Fax gateway, moving data from the Internet to
  classic or Internet-aware dial-up fax products and services

o Dial-up/Internet Fax gateway, moving data from classic or
  Internet-aware dial-up fax products and services to the Internet

The working group will also consider the requirements for gatewaying
Internet Mail (as profiled for facsimile Simple, Extended modes and 
FFPIM) with T.30 Facsimile.

The working group will specifically take note of quality of service 
issues and might decide to produce an Implementer's Guide.

T.30 facsimile carries expectations of message privacy, so that FFPIM 
must specify a basic facility via the Internet. Although T.30 does not 
provide document integrity, users frequently believe that it does.
Consequently the Faxext working group will also seek specification of a 
basic authentication facility over the Internet.

T.30 facsimile provides for receiver capability identification to the 
sender, allowing a sender to provide the "best" fax image the receiver 
can handle. The Faxext working group will consider mechanisms to 
provide 
similar functionality for fax images transferred by e-mail.

Additional areas of discussion will be: Annotated fax messages and
universal messaging issues as they relate to FFPIM, as well as schema
and TIFF extensions required to support the new JBIG-2 (T.88)
compression method.

The working group will continue the excellent pattern of coordinating
activities with other facsimile-related standards bodies, in particular
the ITU, VPIM and other WGs, and with using work from related IETF 
efforts.
