The Frame Relay Service MIB Working Group is chartered to define a set 
of managed objects which will be useful for customer network management 
of a provider's Frame Relay Service. The working group will consider 
existing definitions, including the Frame Relay Forum's work in this 
area. The objects defined by the working group will be consistent with 
the SNMP framework.

The working group will coordinate with both the Frame Relay Forum,
the ATM MIB Working Group, and other relevant groups.

The working group is chartered to complete four tasks:

a) consider revisions to the FRS MIB (currently published as a
   Proposed Standard in RFC 1604) in light of implementation experience,
   changes to the interface MIBs (e.g. IF-MIB, DS1-MIB, DS3-MIB,
   FR-DTE-MIB, creation of the DS0 and DS0 Bundle MIB modules), and
   evolution of the relevant non-IETF standards,

b) prepare a Recommendation to the Area Director as to the
   appropriate disposition of the (updated) FRS MIB, i.e. that it be
   advanced to Draft Standard status or that it cycle at Proposed
   Status,

c) develop a set of managed objects to provide the instrumentation
   required to manage switched-virtual circuits in a frame-relay
   environment.

d) develop a set of managed objects to provide the instrumentation
   required to manage connections that terminate on a mixture of ATM and
   Frame Relay interfaces, i.e. interworked connections. These objects
   will be the minimum necessary to provide the ability to monitor and
   control interworked connections and shall use existing definitions
   (e.g. IF-MIB, FRS-MIB, ATM-MIB, etc.) to instrument the interfaces
   and the "native" parts of the connections.

e) develop a set of managed object for the management of Frame Relay
   Service Level Definitions.

f) consider other closely related future work items.

In all cases, the working group will keep the Frame Relay and ATM
Forums and the ATM MIB WG informed of its progress and will actively
solicit their input.

All output of the group will be consistent with the existing SNMPv2c
framework and standards, including the SNMPv2c Structure of
Management Information (SMI).
