The IETF has recognized that many applications are emerging that
require geographic and civic location information about resources and
entities, and that the representation and transmission of that
information has significant privacy and security implications. We have
created a suite of protocols that allow such applications to represent
and transmit such location objects and to allow users to express
policies on how these representations are exposed and used. The IETF
has also begun working on creating applications that use these
capabilities, for emergency services, general real-time communication,
and other usages.

The GEOPRIV working group is chartered to continue to develop and
refine representations of location in Internet protocols, and to
analyze the authorization, integrity, and privacy requirements that
must be met when these representations of location are created,
stored, and used. The group will create and refine mechanisms for the
transmission of these representations that address the requirements
that have been identified.

The working group will work with other IETF working groups and other
standards development organizations that are building applications
that use location information to ensure that the requirements are well
understood and met, and that no additional security or privacy issues
related to location are left unaddressed as these location information
is incorporated into other protocols.

It remains a goal of the GEOPRIV working group to deliver
specifications of broad applicability that will become mandatory to
implement for IETF protocols that are location aware.

This working group will not develop location-determining technology.
However, the IETF acknowledges that information used in the location-
determination process will in some cases need to be carried over the
Internet. Where necessary, this working group will develop protocols
or protocol extensions to encode location-determination data
structures defined elsewhere. This working group will not develop
technologies to directly address any particular regulatory
requirements (e.g. 9-1-1). The group will continue to coordinate with
any other IETF entities that are working on those problems to ensure
the technologies created here meet the needs of those entities, and
that the authorization, integrity, and privacy requirements on the
mechanisms provided by these technologies continue to be met.
