The Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) is fundamental to the operation
of the Internet. In recent years, occurrences of BGP related
operational issues have increased, and while overall
understanding of the default-free routing system has improved,
there is still a long and growing list of concerns. Among these
are routing table growth rates, interaction of interior and
exterior routing protocols, dynamic properties of the routing
system, and the effects of routing policy on both the size and
dynamic nature of the routing table. In addition, new and
innovative uses of BGP, such as the use of BGP as a signaling
protocol for some types of Virtual Private Networks, have created
new and unexpected operational issues.

The purpose of the GROW is to consider the operational problems
associated with the IPv4 and IPv6 global routing systems,
including but not limited to routing table growth, the effects of
the interactions between interior and exterior routing protocols,
and the effect of address allocation policies and practices on
the global routing system. Finally, where appropriate, the GROW
documents the operational aspects of measurement, policy,
security, and VPN infrastructures.

GROW will also advise various working groups, including the IDR
and RPSEC working groups, with respect to whether it is
addressing the relevant operational needs, and where appropriate,
suggest course corrections. Finally, operational requirements
developed in GROW can also be used by any new working group
charged with standardizing a next generation inter-domain routing
protocol.

GOALS:
-----

(i). Evaluate and develop various methodologies of controlling
                policy information in order to reduce the effect of
                prefix sub-aggregates beyond the necessary diameter, so
                as to reduce the Network Layer Reachability Information
                (or NLRI; see e.g.,draft-ietf-idr-bgp4-23.txt) load on
                network infrastructure.

(ii). Document and suggest operational solutions to problematic
                aspects of the currently deployed routing
                system. Examples include instability caused by
                oscillation of MULTI_EXIT_DISC (or MED; see RFC 3345)
                values.

(iii). Analyze aspects of supporting new applications, including
                extending existing routing protocols and creating new
                ones. This includes risk, interference and application
                fit.

(iv). Determine the effect of IGP extensions on the stability of
                the Internet routing system.

(v). Document the operational aspects of securing the Internet
                routing system, and provide recommendations to 
other     
                WGs.


Some Relevant References:
-------------------------
http://www.routeviews.org
http://bgp.potaroo.net
http://www.cidr-report.org
http://www.pch.net/routing/BGP_table_size.ital
http://moat.nlanr.net/AS
http://www.apnic.net/stats/bgp
http://www.merit.edu/ipma
http://www.caida.org/projects/routing/atoms
