The Host Identity Protocol (HIP) provides a method of separating the
end-point identifier and locator roles of IP addresses. It introduces
a new Host Identity (HI) name space, based on public keys. The public
keys are typically, but not necessarily, self generated.

The specifications for the architecture and protocol details for these
mechanisms consist of:

HIP Architecture (RFC 4423)
Host Identity Protocol (RFC 5201)

There are several publicly known interoperating implementations, some
of which are open source.

Currently, the HIP base protocol works well with any pair of
co-operating end-hosts. However, to be more useful and more widely
deployable, HIP needs some support from the existing infrastructure,
including the DNS, and a new piece of infrastructure, called the HIP
rendezvous server.

+-------------------------------------------------------+
| The purpose of this Working Group is to define the |
| minimal infrastructure elements that are needed for |
| HIP experimentation on a wide scale. |
+-------------------------------------------------------+

At this point, the missing elements for running such wide-scale
experiments are a NAT traversal solution, a description on the
interactions between legacy (i.e., HIP unaware) applications and HIP,
and a native API for HIP. Additionally, the working group will
specify, also in Experimental RFCs, how to build HIP-based
overlays. HIP-based overlays have received a lot of attention in
different fora and are seen as a key area for HIP experimentation
where the benefits HIP brings may be most relevant.

Note that even though the specifications are chartered for
Experimental, it is understood that their quality and security
properties should match the standards track requirements. The main
purpose for producing Experimental documents instead of standards
track ones are the unknown effects that the mechanisms may have on
applications and on the Internet at large.

In parallel to this working group, there is an IRTF Research Group
with a broader scope that includes efforts both on developing the more
forward looking aspects of the HIP architecture and on exploring the
effects that HIP may have on the applications and the Internet.

The following are charter items for the working group:

o Specify how legacy (i.e., HIP unaware) applications can be made to
work with HIP.

o Specify a solution for HIP to traverse legacy (i.e., HIP unaware)
NATs. This solution will be based on existing NAT traversal mechanisms
such as ICE (Interactive Connectivity Establishment).

o Specify a native HIP socket API.

o Specify a framework to build HIP-based overlays. This framework will
describe how HIP can perform some of the tasks needed to build an
overlay and how technologies developed somewhere else (e.g., a peer
protocol developed in the P2PSIP WG) can complement HIP by performing
the tasks HIP was not designed to perform.

o Specify how to generate ORCHIDs from other node identifiers
including both cryptographic ones (leading to cryptographic
delegation) and non-cryptographic ones (e.g., identifiers defined by a
peer protocol).

o Specify how to carry certificates in the base exchange. This was
removed from the base HIP spec so that the mechanism is specified in a
stand-alone spec.

o Specify how to carry upper-layer data over specified HIP
packets. These include some of the existing HIP packets and possibly
new HIP packets (e.g., a HIP packet that occurs outside a HIP base
exchange).
