Most deployments of EAP in wireless networks employ an authenticator in
pass-through mode, usually located at the edge, coupled with a backend 
AAA/EAP server.  Many EAP methods generate an MSK and an EMSK.  The 
MSK is used by several EAP lower layers.  The EMSK remains at the peer 
and server, but it is not presently used in any specifications.  
Different EAP lower layers make use of the MSK differently; the most 
common usage is to derive Transient Session Keys (TSKs) to provide 
access link security in networks (e.g., IEEE 802.11i, IEEE 802.16e), 
although some lower layers (e.g., IKEv2) use the MSK for other
purposes.
 
Extensions to current EAP key framework will be needed to facilitate
inter-authenticator handover and roaming.  Some problems that need to 
be addressed with extensions to EAP keying include:
 
1) Inter-authenticator handovers require re-execution of EAP 
authentication even though the same EAP authentication server is 
used.  Handover scenarios vary considerably in their fundamental 
assumptions.  In scenarios where hosts remain connected during the 
handover period, EAP authentication need not be in the critical path 
for handover.  However, there are scenarios where necessary
connectivity is not available to support "make before break" 
communications.
In these scenarios, significant handover latency can result.  To avoid 
this latency, SDOs have employed methods such as context transfer and 
anchoring that are inefficient or insecure or both.
 
2) EAP peers with unexpired keying material from a full EAP exchange 
must take part in a full EAP exchange with the same AAA server to 
extend a session. While some EAP methods provide fast re-
authentication mechanisms, a consistent, EAP-method-independent, low-
latency re-authentication mechanism is needed.
 
3) EAP generates keys (MSK and EMSK).  When the EAP WG updated the 
protocol and specified the keying framework, many details regarding 
the use of the EMSK were not specified.  The EMSK can be used as the 
root of a cryptographic key hierarchy, and then the keys in the 
hierarchy are used in various ways to provide the needed security 
services.  In order to ensure that different keys derived from the 
EMSK are cryptographically separate and that the key derivations are 
coordinated in an acceptable manner, it is important to clearly 
specify the top of the topology for the key hierarchy and some
guidelines for child key derivations.
 
4) When wireless networks employ AAA infrastructures, the cross-domain 
roaming is handled by inter-domain authentication via the "home" 
AAA/EAP server.  Any authentication must pass through the home server, 
which increases latency. Latency can be reduced by establishing a 
trust relationship between the EAP peer and the visited domain's 
AAA/EAP server.  This trust relationship would be brokered by the home 
EAP/AAA server.  Efficient re-authentication for the EAP peer can be 
supported locally within the visited domain.
 
Some of the inconsistency in current handoff and roaming solutions can 
be attributed to different trade-offs between computational cost, 
mobility performance, and security.  Specifications are not consistent 
in the way that the key derivation function (KDF) and KDF parameters 
are used.  Clear direction by the IETF on the topology and 
construction of a key hierarchy could reduce some of the 
inconsistencies.  However, the HOKEY WG will not attempt to 
standardize TSK derivation from the MSK, as this would interference
with work of other SDOs.
 
The solutions specified by the HOKEY WG fall into several categories, 
based on timing and mechanism.  The authentication and key management 
may occur before handoff, when latency is much less critical.  
Alternatively, authentication and key management can occur as part of 
the handoff, where latency is critical.  Solutions should reduce or 
eliminate the number of referrals to AAA servers, and solutions should 
avoid re-executing lengthy EAP method exc hanges.This may be 
accomplished by providing new mechanisms for cryptographic keying
material in combination with a protocol for the timely delivery of 
appropriate keys to the appropriate entities.  Solutions are expected 
to include "handover keying," "low-latency re-authentication," 
and "pre-authentication."
 
All solution categories are useful, each supporting different 
scenarios.  The HOKEY WG may provide multiple solutions, each 
addressing a different scenario.
 
Solutions specified by the HOKEY WG must:
 
1) Be responsive to handover and re-authentication latency performance
objectives within a mobile wireless access network.
 
2) Fulfill the requirements in draft-housley-aaa-key-mgmt and 
draft-ietf-eap-keying.
 
3) Be independent of the access-technology.  Any key hierarchy 
topology or protocol defined must be independent of EAP lower layers.  
The protocols may require additional support from the EAP lower layers 
that use it.
 
4) Accommodate inter-technology heterogeneous handover and roaming.
 
5) No changes to EAP methods.  Any extensions defined to EAP must not 
cause changes to existing EAP methods.
 
In specifying an access-technology-independent solution, media 
independent guidelines for SDOs may also be needed to explain how the 
keying material and signaling can be employed in a specific access 
technology.
 
 
HOKEY WG Deliverables
=====================
 
All the specifications will be EAP-method-independent manner and
access-technology-agnostic.  EAP re-authentication and EAP pre-
authentication authenticator are expected to use the same layer and 
the same protocol as the original EAP authentication used for the 
authenticator.   They will provide enough semantics and guidance so 
that all SDOs can employ them and preserve cryptographic separation.
 
1) A Problem Statement that defines the problem of re-authentication 
and key management.  The discussion will include security and 
performance goals for the solutions.  Too often, mobility optimization 
discussions do not clearly identify the scenarios that are being 
addressed; this lack of clarity often makes it difficult to agree on 
whether the proposed optimizations offer real value.  To avoid this 
situation, the Problem Statement must clearly describe the scenarios 
that are being addressed, and the assumptions about the handover
environment associated with that scenario.
 
2) A specification of an EMSK-based key hierarchy topology.  The 
specification will include a requirements, one or more KDF, and 
parameters.  This is follow-on work EAP (RFC 3748) and EAP keying 
framework that was developed in the EAP WG.
 
3) A specification for the derivation of root keys, such as the 
handover root key (HRK), as well as any other media-independent keys 
(e.g., authenticator level keys) that need to be derived from such a 
root key, to support re-authentication and handover key management.  
The HOKEY WG can base these keys on either the MSK or the EMSK 
produced by EAP (pick one).   If the consensus is to use the EMSK, 
then the HRK forms one branch in the EMSK-based key hierarchy.  This 
specification will describe the properties of each key that is 
specified, and the topics must include caching, naming, scope,
binding, storage, and key lifetime.  

4) A protocol specification for media-independent, low-latency
re-authentication.  The protocol specification must support handovers 
between EAP authenticators.  This protocol specification is expected 
to employ a re-authentication branch in the key hierarchy.
 
5) A protocol specification for secure and timely distribution of
cryptographic keys to support roaming and handover.  Use of AAA 
protocols is preferred, and if used, should leverage existing work if 
possible (such as RADEXT WG work on RFC 3576bis and RADIUS 
cryptographic algorithm agility). However, if AAA protocols cannot 
meet the objectives, other protocols for reactive or proactive 
distribution or retrieval of keys by the proper entities
is permitted.
 
6) A specification for inter-EAP-authenticator roaming and re-
authentication in visited domains that is brokered using inter-domain 
trust relationships to support efficient inter-domain roaming.
 
7) A specification for EAP pre-authentication to support low-latency
inter-authenticator handoffs.
