Note on Mailing Lists

  General discussion about HTML is normally carried out on the 
`www-html'
  list, which should be used for anything which is not the work of this
  group.

   Address:  www-html@w3.org

   To subscribe:  www-html-request@w3.org

   Archive: 
http://gummo.stanford.edu/html/hypermail/www-html-1994q2.index.html


Description

  The HTML Working Group is chartered firstly to describe, and secondly 
to
  develop, the HyperText Markup Language (HTML).  The group's work is to 
be
  based on existing practice on the Internet, and will make due 
reference
  to the SGML standard.
 
  The group will build upon a working specification originally written 
by
  Tim Berners-Lee, much work done by Dan Connolly in editing and 
testing,
  the recent editing of Karen Muldrow, and the HTMLPlus specification
  edited by Dave Raggett.  The working group takes over the work of the
  informal HTML Implementors Group which met at the WWW94 conference in
  Geneva, the HTML workshop at that conference, and an informal meeting 
and
  an IETF BOF in Toronto in July 94.
   
  The HTML standard will provide a format for hypertext files of wide
  applicability, and particularly as a mandatory common format for all
  WorldWide Web applications.
   
  The standard will specify the relationships between HTML and other
  standards and practices such as URIs, HTTP, MIME and SGML.
   
Focus
 
  The working group will have a strong focus to:
   
    o Describe existing features before developing new features

    o Base specification on existing practice

    o Express the relationship of HTML to URIs, MIME, SGML, HyTime and
      HTTP

    o Define conformance levels

    o Define transition possibilities and compatibilities between
      versions and levels

  The working group will work in two stages.
 
  Descriptive specification

    The first priority will be to complete the specfication of existing
    practice on the Internet, defining it in terms which make 
development
    of new features as straightforward as possible.  This specification
    will cover HTML up to that which has been called level 2 (i.e.,
    including basic features, highlighting, images and forms).  During 
this
    period discussion of new features should not be carried out on the
    working group mailing list.
                         
  Development 
 
    Once the descriptive specification is submitted to the standards
    process, the group will work on development of HTML, taking on the 
work
    known as HTMLPlus.  This work will include formats for tables, 
figures
    and mathematical formulae.

    In the absence of other proposals, the working group will terminate
    having produced its milestones and the RFCs having achieved 
standards
    status.
