The Inter-Domain Routing Working Group is chartered to standardize 
and promote the Border Gateway Protocol Version 4 (BGP-4) [RFC 
1771] capable of supporting policy based routing for TCP/IP 
internets. 
 
The objective is to promote the use of BGP-4 to support IP version 
4 and IP version 6. The working group will continue to work on 
improving the scalability of BGP. 
 
The current tasks of the WG are limited to: 
 
- Revise and clarify the base BGP4 document (RFC 1771). Note that 
RFC 1771 no longer documents existing practice and one goal of the 
update is document existing practice. Determine whether the document 
can be advanced as full Standard or needs to recycle at Proposed 
or Draft Standard. 
 
- Submit updated base BGP4 MIB to accompany the revised base BGP4 
document. 
 
Once these tasks are finished (means WG consensus, WG Last Call, 
AD Review, IETF Last Call, and IESG approval for publication), work 
will progress on the following: 
 
- Review and Evaluate Existing RFCs on AS Confederations and Route 
Reflection. If changes are needed, create and advance revisions. 
 
- Review and evaluate Multiprotocol BGP (RFC 2858) for advancement 
as Draft Standard. 
 
- Progress BGP Extended Communities along standards track. 
 
- Extend BGP to support a 4-byte AS number, develop plan for 
transitioning to usage of 4-byte AS numbers. Advance support for a 
4-byte AS numbers along standards track. 
 
- Produce BGP MIB v2 that includes support for AS Confederations, 
Route Reflection, Communities, Multi-Protocol BGP, BGP Extended 
Communities, support for 4-byte AS numbers. 
 
- Progress along the IETF standards track a BGP-based mechanism 
that allows a BGP speaker to send to its BGP peer a set of route 
filters that the peer would use to constrain/filter its outbound 
routing updates to the speaker. Currently defined in 
draft-ietf-idr-route-filter-03.txt. 
 
- Progress along standards track an Outbound Router Filter (ORF) 
type for BGP, that can be used to perform aspath based route 
filtering. The ORF-type will support aspath based route filtering 
as well as regular expression based matching for address groups. 
Currently defined in draft-ietf-idr-aspath-orf-00.txt. 
 
- Progress a BGP Graceful Restart mechanism along standards track. 
 
- Progress Subcodes for BGP Cease Notification Message along 
standards 
track. 
 
- Progress AS-wide Unique BGP Identifier for BGP-4 along standards 
track. 
 
- Progress Dynamic Capability for BGP-4 along standards track.
 
- Progress Flow Specification rules along standards track.
 
Tasks for this working group are limited to those listed above; 
new items to be added to the charter must be approved by the IESG.
