Recent experiments demonstrate the capability of packet switching
protocols to support Integrated Services --- the transport of audio,
video, real-time, and classical data traffic within a single network
infrastructure.  These experiments suggest that expanding the Internet
service model would better meet the needs of these diverse applications.
The purpose of this working group is to specify this enhanced service 
model and then to define and standardize certain interfaces and 
requirements necessary to implement the new service model.
 
The working group will focus on defining a minimal set of global
requirements which transition the Internet into a robust
integrated-service communications infrastructure.  Enhancements to
individual protocols (e.g., adding additional routing information to
routing protocols, or choosing IP queueing disciplines for routers)
will be left to other working groups, except in those rare cases where
detailed definitions of behavior are critical to the success of the
enhanced architecture.
 
Extending the Internet service model raises a series of questions.
The working group will focus on the three problems listed below:
 
(1) Clearly defining the services to be provided. The first task 
    faced by this working group is to define and document the enhanced 
    Internet service model.
 
(2) Defining the application service, router scheduling and (general)
    subnet interfaces.  The working group must define at least three
    high-level interfaces: that expressing the application's end-to-end
    requirements, that defining what information is made available to
    individual routers within the network, and the additional
    expectations (if any) the enhanced service model has for subnet 
    technologies. The working group will define these abstract 
    interfaces, and will coordinate with and advise IP over "subnet" 
    working groups (such as IP over ATM) in this.

(3) Developing router validation requirements which can ensure that
    the proper service is provided.  We assume that the Internet will
    continue to contain a heterogeneous set of routers, running 
    different routing protocols and using different forwarding 
    algorithms.  The working group will seek to define a minimal set of 
    additional router requirements which ensure that the Internet can
    support the new  service model. Rather than presenting specific 
    scheduling and admission control algorithms which must be supported, 
    these requirements will likely take the form of behavioral tests
    which measure the capabilities of routers in the integrated 
    services environment. This approach is used because no single
    algorithm seems likely to be appropriate in all circumstances at 
    This time.  The working group will coordinate with the Benchmarking 
    Working Group (BMWG).
 
We expect to generate three RFCs as a product of performing these tasks.
 
An important aspect of this working group's charter is in coordination
with the development of IP Next Generation.  The working group will
be reviewed in November 1995 to determine if it should be re-chartered
as is or modified to reflect IPng developments, in particular, but also
operational and commercial developments.  The IESG deems the great
significance of this working group to merit this unusual review.
 
In addition, because many of the integrated services concepts are new,
the working group may produce Informational RFCs explaining specific
algorithms that may be appropriate in certain circumstances, and may 
host some educational meetings to assist both IETF members and members 
of the larger Internet community to understand the proposed enhancements 
to IP.
 
The working group proposes to hold regular meetings beyond those held at
the IETF meetings.
