The IETF IPCDN Working Group develops and standardizes MIBs
for IP-capable data-over-cable systems, for example cable
modems, multimedia terminal adapters and associated
cable-data equipment in a cable headend.
These MIBs cover not only cable data interfaces, but also
management of cable-data equipment and systems.

The WG mailing list may be used to discuss Internet-related
issues in data-over-cable equipment and systems. In the event
of a particular new Internet technology issue arising in the
cable-data context, the WG will identify whether that is best
handled within the IETF or is best handled by another standards
body. In the event that new IETF MIB work is requested, the WG
chairs can discuss additional WG work items with the AD. Such
additions will have to go through normal re-charter process.
If non-MIB work gets identified, such items are not normal
work items for this IPCDN-MIB WG and must go through normal
IETF new WG chartering process.

Standardization of MIBs for DOCSIS and PacketCable systems are
explicitly within the scope of the IPCDN Working Group.

The IPCDN WG will also keep informed on what other groups in
the industry are doing as it relates to the efforts of this
working group.

The WG will align its specifications with IPv6 and SNMP Standards.

Related groups:

CableLabs (http://www.cablelabs.com/) is structured into projects.
In its Cable Modem DOCSIS project, CableLabs has produced three
generations of data over cable specifications: DOCSIS 1.0,
DOCSIS 1.1, and DOCSIS 2.0.
In its PacketCable project, CableLabs has produced one generation
of interface specifications for delivering real-time multimedia
services over DOCSIS (http://www.packetcable.com/specifications/).
Internationally, IPCablecom is the global name associated
with the extensions & global standardization of PacketCable
in ETSI & ITU-T SG9.

DOCSIS 1.0 includes specifications for a bidirectional
data-over-cable interface (RFI, or Radio Frequency Interface)
and a data privacy service (BPI, or Baseline Privacy Interface).
The key devices in a DOCSIS network are the Cable Modem (CM, the
device at the subscriber premise) and the Cable Modem Termination
System (CMTS, the device at the cable headend). For DOCSIS 1.0
systems, the IPCDN WG has published the Cable Device MIB
(RFC 2669), the RF Interface MIB (RFC 2670), and the Baseline
Privacy MIB (RFC 3083).

DOCSIS 1.1 extends the DOCSIS 1.0 specifications to support
better quality of service parameters (RFIv1.1), to enable
operation in European cable networks (EuroDOCSIS), and to
authenticate modems and firmware images (BPI+). The IPCDN WG
will update the Cable Device and Radio Frequency MIBs for
DOCSIS 1.1, and repair flaws discovered in operational use.
Other IPCDN WG documents will address the operational and
management issues for new DOCSIS 1.1 functional components
(e.g. BPI+), for subscriber device management, and for
uniform event notification. The IPCDN WG has also published the DOCSIS
Subscriber Management MIB (RFC4036) for DOCSIS 1.1 and 2.0
systems.

DOCSIS 2.0 enhances the DOCSIS 1.1 specifications at the
physical layer, in particular to support two new physical
layer encodings: S-CDMA and A-TDMA. The IPCDN WG will update
the Radio Frequency MIB for DOCSIS 2.0.

PacketCable 1.0 is built on top of the DOCSIS 1.1 cable modem
infrastructure and it includes a suite of interface
specifications covering multimedia terminal adapter (MTA)
device provisioning, voice over IP session signaling, QoS
signaling based on IETF standards. The key systems in a
PacketCable network are the multimedia terminal adapter (MTA),
a Call Management Server (CMS), a PacketCable-compliant
DOCSIS 1.1 CMTS, Media Gateway Controllers, Media Gateways
along with back-office systems. In ITU-T SG-9 and ETSI AT,
IPCableCom has standardized PacketCable to create a set of
international standards.


Work items:

The IPCDN WG will address issues related to network management,
especially as they concern HFC access networks. It is expected
that other services (i.e. RSVP, IPSEC, etc.) will operate
mostly unmodified.

The specific work items include

-- DOCSIS,
- publish MIB documents for:
- subscriber device management on a DOCSIS 1.1 CMTS,
- managing the quality of service parameters for a
DOCSIS 1.1 device,
- managing the Baseline Privacy Plus system for a
DOCSIS 1.1 device,
- uniform event notification on a DOCSIS 1.1 device,
- revise MIB documents for:
- DOCSIS 1.0 RF Interface MIB to support EuroDOCSIS
parameters and DOCSIS 2.0 physical layer management,
- the DOCSIS 1.0 Cable Device MIBs to address SNMPv3
and IPv6 compliance and interoperability issues,

-- IPCablecom & PacketCable
- publish MIB documents for:
- managing the device parameters of
PacketCable/IPCableCom MTA devices,
- managing the signaling parameters of
PacketCable/IPCableCom MTA devices,
- managing events for PacketCable/IPCablecom systems,
