The IPFIX working group has specified the Information Model (to
describe IP flows) and the IPFIX protocol (to transfer IP flow data
from IPFIX exporters to collectors). Several implementers have already
built applications using the IPFIX protocol. As a result of a series
of IPFIX interoperability testing events the WG has produced
guidelines for IPFIX implementation and testing as well as
recommendations for handling special cases such as bidirectional flow
reporting and reducing redundancy in flow records.

Practical experiences with IPFIX implementations exposed new
requirements for the IPFIX protocol that so far have not been
addressed by the WG. The major current goal of the WG is developing
solutions that meet the new requirements without modifying the core
IPFIX protocol specifications.

1. The IPFIX WG has developed a MIB module for monitoring IPFIX
implementations. Means for configuring these devices have not been
standardized yet. The WG will develop an XML-based configuration data
model that can be used for configuring IPFIX devices and for storing,
modifying and managing IPFIX configurations parameter sets. This work
will be performed in close collaboration with the NETCONF WG.

2. There is a need for storing measured flow information and for
exchanging this information between different systems and
organizations. The WG will develop a common IPFIX file format for
storing flow data in order to facilitate interoperability and
reusability among a wide variety of flow storage, processing, and
analysis tools. It will be a flat-file format using binary encodings
that are based on the IPFIX message format.

3. When dealing with enterprise-specific information elements in IPFIX
flow records, it often occurs that the receiver of the record does not
know the definition of the information element. For processing such
information elements it would be desirable for the receiver to know at
least the data types of the enterprise-specific information elements.
The WG will develop an extension to IPFIX that provides means for the
encoding of IPFIX data type information within an IPFIX Message
stream.

4. Another requirement resulting from practical use of IPFIX is
reporting IPFIX template records and corresponding data records within
the same SCTP stream. The IPFIX WG will develop guidelines for this
use case.

5. First applications of IPFIX at large operator networks showed the
need for mediation of flow information, for example, for aggregating
huge amounts of flow data and for anomymization of flow information.
The IPFIX WG will investigate this issue and produce a problem
statement and a framework for IPFIX flow mediation.

6. The PSAMP WG has developed a protocol for reporting
observed packets. The PSAMP protocol is an extension of
the IPFIX protocol. The IPFIX WG will develop a MIB module
for monitoring PSAMP implementations. The new MIB module
will be an extension of the IPFIX MIB module.
