The advent of switched multi-channel (e.g., WDM, DWDM, OTDM) optical
networks using OXCs (Optical Cross-connects) and other optical
switching elements presents many new opportunities for improving the
performance of IP networks and supporting faster and more flexible
provisioning of IP services.  However, much needs to be specified
before interoperable products based on these technologies can be
deployed in service provider networks.  The work needed in this area
includes:

- Document the use of existing framing methods for IP over optical
  dataplane and control channels, and as necessary specify additional
  framing methods.

- Identify and document the characteristics of the optical transport
  network that are important for selecting paths for optical channels,
  setting-up optical channels, and tearing-down optical channels.

- Document the applications of the common control and measurement
  protocols to the technology-dependent aspects of optical path setup,
  teardown, and maintenance of optical channels across networks with
  optical components.

- Document the requirements for control of optical networks by elements
  outside the optical network itself.

- Document the applicability of IP-based protocols for the controlled
  dissemination of optical network topology, metric, and constraint
  information. Such information can be used for inventory management,
  path selection, and other purposes. The information to be exchanged
  should accommodate both all-optical and optical-electrical-optical
  switching technologies.

- If a need is identified to develop new protocols or make
  incompatible modifications to existing protocols (e.g., routing and
  signaling protocols) to accomplish the above goals, then a recharter
  must first be approved before undertaking such work.

The IP over Optical WG will coordinate with relevant working groups
within the IETF to leverage existing work. The WG may also generate
requirements for other IETF WGs as needed.  Additionally, the WG may
collaborate with other standards bodies and interoperability forums
engaged in IP over optical activities (e.g., including ITU-T) to share
information, minimize duplication of effort, and coordinate activities
in order to promote interoperability and serve the best interest of
the industry.
