Bluetooth is an emerging technology for short range wireless 
communication which enables devices in proximity (< 10 meters) to 
communicate with each other.  Bluetooth SIG, a consortium of nine 
promoter companies and over 1800 adopter companies, is defining radio, 
baseband, and protocol specifications to facilitate interoperability 
among multi-vendor Bluetooth solutions. Bluetooth version 1.0 
specifications were released in Dec 1999 and the first generation of 
products (cellular phones, headsets, palmtops, and laptop computers) 
are 
expected to be launched before the end of this year.

Bluetooth can support point-to-point, point-to-multipoint, and 
multi-hop
communication over wireless medium, but only point-to-point feature of
Bluetooth is enabled in version 1.0 release. The next release is aimed 
at supporting any-to-any communication among devices forming a piconet.
Bluetooth piconets can exist as disconnected networks or be connected 
to
the Internet via cell phones or LAN access points. In both 
configurations (connected or disconnected), it is desirable to make 
Bluetooth devices IP addressable and use IP based protocols for address 
assignment, name resolution, and packet forwarding.

A Bluetooth piconet can be viewed as an instance of a zero-conf 
network.
Similarly, a collection of connected piconets can be modeled as an
instance of a MANET (multi-hop ad hoc) network.  Personal Area 
Networking (PAN) working group of Bluetooth SIG has already started the 
process of developing a specification for IP over Bluetooth. This BOF 
will provide an open forum for the members of the Bluetooth SIG and the 
IETF to exchange information, debate design issues, and learn from each 
other's work. The aim of the BOF is to ensure that the IP over 
Bluetooth
specifications are compatible with the protocols being developed by the
zero-conf and manet working groups of the IETF.

Specifically, the aim is to discuss the following topics:

1.  Present an overview of Bluetooth technology to the IETF community
2.  Explain the constraints of Bluetooth PHY layer (why some things can
    or cannot be done)
3.  IPv{4,6} encapsulation, MTU, multicast for a single piconet.
    - discussion of synergy with zero-conf working group
4.  Evolution of issue #3 for multiple connected piconets.
6.  Applying MANET protocols to Bluetooth multihop networks.
