Editor: David Arneson (arneson@ctron.com)

The next generation of the Internet Protocol (IPv6) is intended to
support Internet traffic for many years into the future by providing
enhancements over the capabilities of the existing IPv4 service. The
IPv6 MIB Working Group is producing specifications for the core
functionality of that service, per recommendations of the IPng Area
Directors as outlined at the July 1994 IETF and in ``The Recommendation
for the IP Next Generation Protocol,'' RFC 1752, January 1995.

The IPv6 MIB Working Group's charter falls into three broad
categories:

 - identify changes, if any, to existing standards track
   SNMPv2 document

 - potential changes to existing MIBs

 - new and additional MIBs that are specific to the IP Next
   Generation Protocol

The IPv6 MIB Working Group is initially chartered to identify specific
areas of work and their corresponding work items, within each of the
abovementioned categories.

To which end, if changes or additions to the standards track SNMPv2
documents are identified, such changes will be communicated to and
discused with the SNMPv2 Working Group. If, at a certain time, the
SNMPv2 Working Group is inactive, this information will be communicated
to the Network Management Area Director.

Specification of a SNMPv2 Textual Convention for IPv6 addresses and the
corresponding Transport Mappings to specify the Transport- Level
address fall into this category. (As a result of an action item from
the IPv6MIB BOF held in December 1994, these have already been
communicated to the SNMPv2 Working Group.)

As part of the second category, this working group will identify
existing MIBs that will be impacted, some of which would need
modifications to, at a minimum, include and reflect IPv6 addresses.
Examples of these MIBs are:

 - MIB-II

 - Evolution of the Interfaces Group of MIB-II

 - IP Forwarding Table MIB

 - RIP Version 2 MIB Extensions

 - OSPF Version 2 MIB

 - IPCP MIB

As part of its charter in this category, this working group will
liaison and communicate with relevant working groups where these
identified MIBs were developed. If, at a certain time, these said
working groups are inactive, the appropriate Area Director will be
apprised.

Per the third category, this working group will identify a complete set
of new and additional MIB modules, and their respective organization,
in the following areas:

 - IPv6 and associated ICMPv6 protocols

 - IPv6 Neighbor Discovery

 - IPv6 Tunneling and Mobility

 - IPv6 Forwarding and Flows

 - IPv6 Network Address Configuration and Resolution

 - IPv6 Header Compression

 - Network Layer Security Aspects

In order to maintain compliance, this working group will liaison with
other working groups within the Internet Area, such as the IPng and
NGTRANS Working Groups.
