The IPv6 working group is responsible for the specification and
standardization of the Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6). IPv6 
provides
a much larger global addresses space than its predecessor IPv4. This
enables global end-to-end communication and restores valuable 
properties
of the IP architecture that have been lost in the IPv4 Internet. The 
core
IPv6 standards are widely implemented and are starting to see global
deployment.

The IPv6 working group was originally chartered by the IESG as the IP
Next Generation (IPng) working group to implement the recommendations 
of
the IPng Area Directors as outlined at the July 1994 IETF meeting and 
in
"The Recommendation for the IP Next Generation Protocol," RFC1752,
January 1995.

The primary focus of the IPv6 w.g. is to complete the standardization 
of
the IPv6 protocols, and to review and update the IPv6 specifications
based on implementation and deployment experience, and advancing them 
on
the standardization track as appropriate.

The working group's work items are as follows:

o Complete Prefix Delegation requirements and publish. Related
  remaining work is:
- Develop Proxy Neighbor Discovery solution for prefix delegation
  and publish. This enables a simple site border router to
  re-advertise downstream a prefix it hears on its upstream link.
o Complete revision of IPv6 MIBs (combined IPv4/IPv6 versions) and
  publish.
o Complete "Default Router Preferences, More-Specific Routes, and "Load
  Sharing" and publish.
o Update to ICMPv6 (RFC2463) and publish.
o Complete "Node Information Queries" and publish.
o Update Auto Configuration (RFC2462) and Neighbor Discovery (RFC2461)
  and publish.
o Investigate approaches to optimize or eliminate Duplicate Address
  Detection (DAD) to make reduce the delays incurred by DAD when there
  is a change of network attachment points. Publish a document defining
  DAD optimizations.
o Update "Privacy Extensions for Stateless Autoconfiguration" document
  (RFC3041) and publish.
o Complete work on IPv6 Node Requirements and publish.
o Complete work stemming from the working group decision to deprecate
  site-local addressing. This includes:
- Publish document deprecating the usage of Site-Local addressing.
- Publish revision of the IPv6 Address Architecture that includes
  the deprecation of site-local addressing.
- Publish a replacement for site-local addresses that removes the
  major limitations and allows for local allocations.
o Update the IPv6 Address Architecture to resolve the issues raised in
  the IAB response to the Robert Elz appeal and publish as a Draft
  Standard.
o Complete work on Scoped Addressing Architecture and publish.
o Update IPv6 over PPP (RFC2472) and publish.
o Complete work on "Link Scoped IPv6 Multicast Addresses" and publish.

All new work items not listed above require the approval of the working
group and IESG before they will be taken on by the working group.
