The L1VPN Working Group's task is to specify mechanisms necessary for
providing layer-1 VPN services (establishment of layer-1 connections
between CE devices) over a GMPLS-enabled transport service-provider 
network.

The following two service models will be addressed:

1. Basic mode: the CE-PE interface's functional repertoire is limited 
to
path setup signalling only. Provider's network is not involved in
distribution of customer network's routing information.

2. Enhanced mode: the CE-PE interface provides the signaling
capabilities as in the Basic mode, plus permits limited exchange of
information between the control planes of the provider and the customer
to help such functions as discovery of reachability information in
remote sites, or parameters of the part of the provider's network
dedicated to the customer.

The WG will work on the following items:

1. Framework document defining the reference network model, L1VPN
service model, fundamental assumptions, and terminology.

2. Specification of the L1VPN signaling functionality between the
customer and the provider network to support the basic mode.

3. Specification of the L1VPN signaling and routing functionality 
within
the provider network to support the basic mode.

4. OAM features and MIB modules and/or extensions required for the 
basic
mode.

5. Specification of the L1VPN signaling and routing functionality
between the customer and the provider network to support the extended 
mode.

6. Specification of the L1VPN signaling and routing functionality 
within
the provider network to support the extended mode.

7. OAM features and MIB modules and/or extensions required for the
extended mode.

8. Applicability guidelines to compare the basic and extended modes.

At this point the WG will address the single-AS scenario only. The
multi-AS/provider scenario may be considered in future.

Protocol extensions required for L1VPN will be done in cooperation with
MPLS, CCAMP, OSPF, IS-IS, IDR, L3VPN, and other WGs where necessary.

L1VPN WG shall also cooperate with ITU-T SG13 through the established
IETF process, and use documents Y.1312 and Y.1313 (describing L1VPN
requirements and network architectures) as input to its design process.
The documents will be available at the IETF liaison web-site.
