This working group is responsible for defining and specifying a
limited number of solutions for supporting provider-provisioned
Layer-3 (routed) Virtual Private Networks (L3VPNs).

The WG is responsible for standardization of the following solutions:
    1. BGP/MPLS IP VPNs (based on RFC 2547)
    2. IP VPNs using Virtual Routers
    3. CE-based VPNs using IPsec

The following VPN deployment scenarios will be considered by the WG:

    1. Internet-wide: VPN sites attached to arbitrary points in
       the Internet

    2. Single service provider (SP)/single AS: VPN sites attached to
       the network of a single provider within the scope of a single
       AS

    3. Single SP/multiple AS'es: VPN sites attached to the network
       of a single provider consisting of multiple AS'es

    4. Cooperating SPs: VPN sites attached to networks of different
       providers that cooperate with each other to provide VPN service

The WG will address deployment of the following features in a VPN
environment:

    1. IP Multicast
    2. IPv6

As part of this effort the WG will work on the following tasks
(additional work items will require rechartering):

    1. Requirements and framework for Layer 3 VPNs
    2. Solution documents for each approach listed above (including
      applicability statements)
    3. MIB definitions for each approach
    4. Security mechanisms for each approach

As a general rule, the WG will not create new protocols, but will
provide functional requirements for extensions of the existing
protocols that will be discussed in the protocol-specific WGs. L3VPN
WG will review proposed protocol extensions for L3VPNs before they are
recommended to appropriate protocol-specific WGs.

As stated above, the WG will define an IPv6 over BGP / MPLS VPN
solution.  This will include a forwarding plane component and a
control plane component.  In the forwarding plane, IPv6 datagrams will
be encapsulated within an MPLS header.  If any aspect of IPv6
forwarding over MPLS is as yet undefined, the L3VPN WG will defer to
the MPLS and appropriate IPv6 WGs.  On the control plane, BGP
extensions may also need to be defined. In this respect, the L3VPN WG
will defer to the IDR and appropriate IPv6 WGs.

QoS support is excluded from the charter at this time.  It may be
considered for inclusion in an updated charter at a later time. Future
work items may also include OAM support.
