Lemonade is tasked to provide a set of enhancements and profiles of 
Internet email submission, transport, and retrieval protocols to 
facilitate operation on platforms with constrained resources, or 
communications links with high latency or limited bandwidth. A primary 
goal of this work is to ensure that those profiles and enhancements 
continue to interoperate with the existing Internet email protocols in 
use on the Internet, so that these environments and more traditional 
Internet users have access to a seamless service.

Lemonade's work is at the crossroads of a body of work related to 
Internet messaging, in particular work done by the VPIM, FAX, and 
IMAPEXT IETF working groups. Given the potentially broad scope of 
activities this group could engage in, the group will focus 
specifically on the following work items:

0. An informational RFC or RFCs will be produced on LEMONADE 
architecture and the issues it seeks to address.

1. Enhance the existing IMAP4 message retrieval and message submission 
(RFC 2476) protocols to satisfy the requirements for handling 
streaming 
multimedia content. The existing standards-track CONNEG framework will 
be used if content negotiation capabilities are needed. The group will 
employ existing protocols (such as for streaming) with IMAP4 instead 
of 
duplicating such functionality within IMAP4.
                   
2. Enhance the existing IMAP4 message retrieval and/or message 
submission (RFC 2476) protocols to satisfy the requirements for 
forwarding a message and/or its attachments without downloading 
the message to the client and subsequently uploading the message to a 
server.

3. Refine the existing IMAP4 message retrieval protocol to facilitate  
its use with devices that have limited capabilities such as mobile     
endpoints. At most one backwards compatible profile of IMAP4 will be   
produced by this effort.

4. Define a format for message notifications for servers reporting     
message status information to other servers. Specify the method for   
delivery of those notifications. 

5. Create a specification describing the use of Internet message       
services in environments where message delivery may take place using   
either Internet protocols or through an MMS server using WAP to 
communicate with the receiving user agent.

Any protocols defined by this working group will include appopriate 
security mechanisms, including authentication, privacy, and access 
control. Mandatory-to-implement security mechanisms will be specified 
as needed in order to guarantee secure protocol interoperability.

The transport area will be consulted to deal with any transport-related
issues that arise, especially in regards to items 1-4 above.

The IAB is currently working on the specification of general 
guidelines 
and requirements for notification services. Once complete this work 
will be used as input to item 4 above.

The working group is aware of several related activities in other 
groups:

- 3GPP TSG T WG2 SWG3 Messaging <http://www.3gpp.org/TB/T/T2/T2.htm>
- W3C Mulitmodal interaction Activity <http://www.w3.org/2002/mmi/>
- Open Mobile Alliance <http://www.openmobilealliance.org/>
- 3GPP2 TSG-X <http://3gpp2.org/Public_html/X/index.cfm>

The goal is to coordinate efforts with at least these groups as 
required.

While there is obvious synergy, given the end-of-life of the VPIM and 
FAX work groups and the similar membership, the working group does not 
expect to coordinate with these other groups.
