Mobile IPv6 enables IPv6 mobile nodes to continue a session using
a given "home address" in spite of changes in its point of
attachment to the network. These changes may cause delay, packet
loss, and also represent signaling overhead traffic on the network.
The MIPSHOP WG has so far worked on two technologies to address
these issues. Hierarchical Mobile IPv6 (HMIPv6) reduces the amount
and latency of signaling between a MN, its Home Agent and one or
more correspondent nodes. Mobile IPv6 Fast Handovers (FMIPv6)
reduces packet loss by providing fast IP connectivity as soon as
the mobile node establishes a new point of attachment at a new
link.

The MIPSHOP WG will continue to work on HMIPv6 and FMIPv6, and
the necessary extensions to improve these protocols. The MIPSHOP
WG will also identify missing components that are required for
deploying these protocols and standardize the necessary extensions.
The WG will also address using these protocols to provide fast
handovers for network-based mobility management protocols like
Proxy Mobile IPv6.

The IEEE 802.21 Media Independent Handover (MIH) working group aims
at providing services to assist with handoffs between heterogeneous
link-layer technologies, and across IP subnet boundaries. MIH
services can be delivered through link-layer specific solutions
and/or through a "layer 3 or above" protocol. MIPSHOP will define the
delivery of information for MIH services for this latter case. A L3
based mechanism to identify a valid information server is also
required. The MIPSHOP will work on developing a protocol for
transport of MIH services information and mechanisms for discovering
the MIH server. Security for the transport of MIH information will
also be addressed.

The MOBOPTS Research Group in the IRTF is chartered to work on
optimizations related to Mobile IPv6 and IP handoffs among other
things. The MIPSHOP WG will take mature proposals from the MOBOPTS
group and standardize them in the IETF on a case-by-case basis.

The MIPSHOP WG will also consider and standardize optimizations for
the Mobile IPv6 protocol and IP mobility in general.

Scope of MIPSHOP:

The working group will work on:

1. FMIPv6 Mobile Node - Access Router security using the AAA
infrastructure

Currently MIPSHOP has produced a standards track protocol for
setting up security between the mobile node and access router
for security FMIPv6 signaling messages. However, the protocol
depends on SeND (Secure Neighbor Discovery) to be available on
the mobile node and the access router. An alternate mechanism
that leverages the AAA infrastructure would be useful. Many
target systems where FMIPv6 is likely to be used use a AAA
infrastructure to authenticate and authorize network access.
The working group will work on a Informational document describing
how the AAA infrastructure could be used for setting up security
associations between the mobile node and the access router.

2. Prefix Management for point-to-point links with FMIPv6

Using FMIPv6 over point-to-points like requires some additional
considerations with respect to managing and allocating prefixes
for the mobile node on these point-to-point links. Therefore
the WG will work on an Informational document to address the
issues.

3. Handover optimizations when Proxy Mobile IPv6 is used for
handovers

Proxy Mobile IPv6 (PMIPv6) is a network-based mobility
management protocol where a node in the access network, called
the Mobile Access Gateway (MAG) handles mobility on behalf of
the mobile node. It has been proposed to use FMIPv6 to
optimize the handover in terms of reducing the packet loss and
transferring relevant context from the old MAG to the new MAG.
The working group will also work on other optimizations like
the use of a transient binding cache entry for improving a
PMIPv6-based handover.

4. Work on protocols and extensions for transporting information
related to IEEE 802.21:

The work includes the layer 3 protocol for transporting MIH
related information and DHCP and DNS extensions for discovering
the information servers.
