High Level Overview

The goal of this effort is to standardize mechanisms for supporting 
network-based IP virtual  private  networks  (NBVPN). NBVPNs are 
distinguished by the following characteristics :

1. Their operations are outsourced to one or more SPs.

2. They may require support for a separate addressing realm for each 
   customer. That is, several customers may use the same IP prefixes, 
   which must be kept distinct for each VPN.

3. They are designed for site to site transport of aggregated traffic. 
    
The focus of the WG is the layer 3 mechanisms to be implemented
within the service provider infrastructure. Through these mechanisms
user interfaces/configurations are simplified and efficiency of
resource-sharing and multi-VPN management within provider
networks is improved. Other types of VPN service support where the
SP infrastructure is totally unaware of the VPN service existence 
are out of scope of this WG.

Devices  used  for  NBVPNs  provide independent functions for the
customer-facing side and the network-facing side.  The  customer-
facing  side  has  a customer-specific IP forwarding environment,
tailored for each customer. The network-facing side of the device
participates  in  the SP network's routing (i.e., runs an IGP and
IBGP as a standard router would).  Tunnels are  used  for  inter-
site connectivity. There are at least 3 different tunneling mechanisms
that are considered within  the  scope  of  this  WG  to  support
NBVPNs:  MPLS,  GRE  and IPSEC.  Note that IPSEC can be used as a
tunneling protocol itself or an "inner  wrapper"  within  another
tunneling  protocol such as MPLS or GRE.  NBVPNs may also support
traditional L2 tunneling protocols  at  the  network-facing  side
although  the  use of these tunnels are outside the scope of this
working group.  A single VPN may make use of a mixture of  tunnel
mechanisms.   


Objectives

The following are the objectives  for  the working group.

o Engage   SPs  to  further  refine  service  requirements  at  the
  customer-facing side which are the basic assumptions for defining
  the network-facing side functions and MIBs.

o Engage   SPs  to  further  refine  service  requirements from a
  Service Provider perspective. That also includes:

  - estimate the possible requirements for scale of such services in 
    terms of the number of simultaneous NBVPNs within a SP's network
    and the number of simultaneous NBVPNs which might be needed between 
    SPs;

  - estimate the possible requirements for frequency of change for
    NBVPNs.

o Ensure that any proposed technology can meet the estimated scale and
  frequency of change requirements.

o Specify a framework for Network-Based VPNs, including a common 
  terminology and taxonomy.

o Take into account IPv4 and IPv6, unicast and multicast and
  customer sites with either permanent or intermittent connectivity
  to the service provider.

o Define  and  document existing methods for tunnel multiplexing so
  that a  single  tunnel  between  two  devices  can  be  used  for
  tunneling multiple VPNs.
 
o Discuss   the  applicability  of  different  methods  for  tunnel
  associations.  The issue of tunnel association  includes  devices
  locating  other devices that are attached to the same VPN, tunnel
  formation, and tunnel multiplexing.

o Specify statistics and other network management information needed
  for tunnel operation. For example, to be able to determine when a
  tunnel's up/down state has changed.

o Specify tunnel restoration parameters as required by the specific
  tunnel technology.

o Specify  the mechanisms  to  distribute  and populate the customer-
  specific  forwarding  environment  with  local  and  remote  site
  routes.

o Specify the mechanisms that  are needed  to distribute  routes to
  to each customer's site.

o Define methods for inter-AS(SP) VPN interconnect  so  that  VPNs  are
  able to span multiple ASs (SPs). This includes scalability 
  and configurability issues for large numbers of inter-provider NBVPNs.

o Define the management of inter-AS(SP) VPN interconnect. This includes
  scalability and configurability issues for large numbers of 
  inter-provider NBVPNs.
    
o Specify the mechanisms needed for interworking between on demand 
  customer access techniques (ex. IPSEC tunnels) and edge devices
  providing the NBVPN service. 

o Specify the security mechanisms to be used to protect the control
  of NBVPN services and the security mechanisms to protect customer
  data in NBVPN services.

o Identify and specify the technical means for dynamic provisioning of
  NBVPN. 

o Specify methods to support VPN-specific SLAs. These  includes  1)
  the  use of IntServ or DiffServ capabilities combined with IPSEC,
  GRE and MPLS, and 2) the use of TE capabilities combined  with  MPLS
  QoS. This objective includes both the customer facing side and the 
  network facing side.

o Define  the  MIBs  and  management  framework  to  be  used   for
  configuration  and  management of NBVPNs on a per-device and per-
  customer basis.
   
o Coordinate the effort with other organisations working in the same
  domain (ex. ITU).

o Take into account the impact on network operations organizations
  of dealing with very large scale deployments of MBVPNs.  Describe
  debugging tools and procedures. Define standardized metrics for
  measuring the performance and heath of NBVPNs.


Charter Statement

The working group is responsible for defining and specifying the
set  of  mechanisms  for supporting network-based virtual private
networks (NBVPNs). The  work  effort  will  include  a  framework
document, a service requirement document  and  specific  protocol  
definitions  with  a  focus on scalability and manageability.
Scalability and manageability requirements will be based on Service 
Provider's projections for number, complexity, and rate of change of 
customer VPNs over the next several years.

It is assumed that the effort will produce a limited number of (but 
likely more than one) solutions. The  goal of this effort is to
foster interoperable implementations for each of the specific solutions,
and commonalities among different solutions to the extent this
is practical. Standardization will be gauged on SP  support  for  
the  specific solutions.

The  working group will carefully analyze the threat and security
aspects of  network-based  VPNs  and  define  a  minimal  set  of
mandatory  to implement technologies and management mechanisms to
ensure adequate security and  privacy  of  user  data  in  a  VPN
environment.

It is not within the scope of this WG to define new base protocol
machinery, such as new routing protocols, new tunneling  schemes,
or new security mechanisms specific to the NBVPN application. Should
the WG require additions or enhancements to existing protocol machinery, 
the WG will refer requirements to the appropriate WG, rather than 
undertaking them within the NBVPN WG.
