The IETF has defined both local and global mobility management
protocols that are intended to handle IP mobility for nodes. All IP
mobility management protocols defined thus far require the involvement
of the mobile node in order to accomplish mobility. This working
group is tasked with defining a network-based local mobility
management protocol, where local IP mobility is handled without
involvement from the mobile node. The idea is that the mobile node
may move across multiple access routers without encountering a change
in its IP address, thereby hiding the mobility from the IP layer and
above.

As part of the first phase of efforts in this working group, a
protocol for such network-based local mobility has been developed.
This protocol, Proxy Mobile IPv6 (PMIPv6), has been developed based on
Mobile IPv6, after considering other alternative approaches. With
this protocol, unmodified IP nodes may change access routers without
having to change the IP address on an interface, within a given
administrative domain. This is accomplished by having Mobile Access
Gateways (MAGs), often part of the access routers in a network, send
binding updates on behalf of mobile nodes attached to them, to a Local
Mobility Anchor (LMA). The LMA manages the mobility of the mobile
nodes across the MAGs within a given PMIPv6 domain.

The PMIPv6 protocol is being adopted as part of several wide-area
wireless network (e.g., 3GPP, 3GPP2, WiMAX) and local area network
environments. The current charter of this working group involves
specification of some necessary features that make the deployment of
this protocol feasible in these various environments.

As part of this effort, it is essential to support mobility for IPv4
end nodes. Some means of dealing with overlapping private IPv4
addresses of mobile nodes and supporting separation of flows between
the MAG and LMA is also required. Further, given that local and
global mobility management protocols are likely to be deployed in some
combination in various environments, it is necessary to clearly define
the interactions between PMIPv6 and MIPv6. Interactions with AAA
protocols such as RADIUS and Diameter may be required for
authorization or provisioning purposes. When multiple LMAs are
present, an automated LMA discovery mechanism may be needed to
facilitate deployment. The above items are in scope of the current
charter.

The MAG and LMA are considered to be IPv6 capable for all efforts of
this protocol. Also, all features defined must work with unmodified
IP nodes. Specifying any changes to mobile nodes is out of scope of
the current charter. Handoff and route optimizations are also out of
scope. There is, however, considerable interest in optimization work,
for instance, and a future recharter of this working group is likely
to address this in some manner.

NETLMM WG Deliverables
----------------------

1) Interface between a PMIPv6 MAG and MN: This interface will define
the interaction between a regular IP node and a MAG that will be used
to trigger various mobility management actions on the MAG. This is
necessary for the MAG to properly trigger binding updates to the LMA
and create appropriate mobility management state.

2) IPv4 Support for PMIPv6: This will define the support for IPv4
nodes in PMIPv6. This will also define the protocol operation over an
IPv4 transport between the MAG and LMA, by employing protocol extensions
already developed in the MEXT WG.

3) Interactions between Mobile IPv6 and Proxy Mobile IPv6: This will
highlight the interactions required between these protocols in various
methods of co-existence of these in a system, with a view to
documenting the best practices to be used. The scenarios considered
will include a hierarchical model of local and global mobility
management using PMIPv6 and MIPv6 respectively, a mixed mode of the
two with some nodes supporting MIPv6 and others not, and the use of
MIPv6 upon movement of nodes outside a PMIPv6 domain.

4) GRE Keying option for PMIPv6: This will define a mechanism using
GRE keys to support separation of flows between a MAG and LMA.

5) RADIUS support for PMIPv6: This will define the interactions
between RADIUS and PMIPv6 to support policy provisioning and
authorization.

6) Automatic LMA discovery: This will define the ability for MAGs to
automatically discover and use an LMA within a PMIPv6 domain. The
scope of this effort may include specifying the use of DNS or DHCP
based LMA discovery or LMA discovery using policy information
retrieved via AAA protocols.

7) MIB for PMIPv6: This will define the MIB for the protocol for
interoperability purposes.

8) PMIPv6 path management and failure detection: This will define
an extension to the PMIPv6 protocol allowing PMIPv6 peers to
verify bidirectional reachability with their peer, detect
failure of their peer, and signal their own failure to their
peer.
