The Next Steps in Signaling Working Group is responsible for
standardizing an IP signaling protocol with QoS signaling as the first
use case.  This working group will concentrate on a two-layer
signaling paradigm.  The intention is to re-use, where appropriate,
the protocol mechanisms of RSVP, while at the same time simplifying it
and applying a more general signaling model.

The existing work on the requirements, the framework and analysis of
existing protocols will be completed and used as input for the
protocol work.

NSIS will develop a transport layer signaling protocol for the
transport of upper layer signaling. In order to support a toolbox or
building block approach, the two-layer model will be used to separate
the transport of the signaling from the application signaling.  This
allows for a more general signaling protocol to be developed to
support signaling for different services or resources, such as NAT &
firewall traversal and QoS resources.  The initial NSIS application
will be an optimized RSVP QoS signaling protocol.  The second
application will be a middle box traversal protocol.  An informational
document detailing how Differentiated Services can be signaled
with the QoS Signaling protocol will be made.

Security is a very important concern for NSIS. The working group will
study and analyze the threats and security requirements for
signaling.  Compatibility with authentication and authorization
mechanisms such as those of Diameter, COPS for RSVP (RFC 2749) and
RSVP Session Authorization (RFC 3250), will be addressed.

It is a non-goal of the working group to develop new resource
allocation protocols. Traffic engineering is out of scope of this
WG. Additionally, third party signaling is out of scope of this WG.
New mobility and AAA protocols are out of scope of the WG.
However, the work produced in this Working Group should work with 
existing IETF mobility and AAA protocols, including (but not limited 
to)
Mobile IP, Seanoby Context Transfer, etc.  An applicability statement
will be written to discuss the applicability of NSIS protocols in 
mobile
environments.

NSIS also welcomes participation and expression of requirements
requirements from non-IETF standards organization members, for
instance 3GPP, 3GPP2 and ITU-T.
