The Operations and Management Area receives occasional proposals for 
the development and publication of RFCs dealing with operational and
management topics that are not in scope of an existing working group 
and do not justify the formation of a new working group. The OPSAWG 
will serve as the forum for developing such work items in the IETF.

The OPSAWG mailing list is an open discussion forum for such work 
items, when they arise. The working group meets if there are active 
proposals that require discussion. The working group milestones are 
updated as needed to reflect the current work items and their 
associated milestones. All new work items and rechartering proposals 
will be brought for approval with the IESG.

The focus of the work will be on topics that govern the behavior or WGs
in the O&M area (e.g., manageability requirements) and on small, 
highly focused projects that don't merit a WG of their own or belong 
to WGs that have already concluded (e.g. advancement of documents on 
the standards track, application statements, extensions of MIB 
modules).

The OPSAWG will undertake only work items that are proved to have at
least a reasonable level of interest from the operators and users
community and have a committed number of editors and reviewers. It is
not within the scope of the OPSAWG to pick up failed WG work or parts 
of a WG charter items that could not come to convergence on what they 
were chartered to do.

The currently active OPSAWG work items mostly fall under the following
topics:

(A) Development of a BCP document that will provide guidelines for
authors and a reference for reviewers of IETF documents that specify 
new protocols or protocol extensions about the information about 
operational and manageability requirements that needs to be covered in 
these documents

(B) Templates and tools for Operations and Management Area Documents

(C) Maintenance and small scale extensions of documents that were
developed in working groups that have concluded (e.g. MIB modules).
