Current PSTN/Internet Interfaces (PINT) WG addresses connection 
arrangements through which Internet applications can request and enrich 
PSTN (Public Switched Telephone Network) telephony services. Some 
Interworking services require Notification and requests for services 
that come from PSTN/IN. Essentially, these requests will be "mirror 
image" of PINT requests. To provide interoperability between PSTN and IP 
networks, it  is very important to ensure notification to the IP network 
of  the events happening in PSTN. PSTN/IN Call Flow is organized around 
actions or collections of actions called Point-In-Call (PIC). Detection 
Points (DPs), which are associated with the PICs, operate between the 
PICs and can be the basis for Notification Events for Interworking with 
IP network. IN furnishes "Network Intelligence" to PSTN. Similarly, it 
can be utilized to initiate Notification Events to IP network.

We are proposing new Working Group to be a "mirror image" of the PINT 
WG, regarding direction of the requests for service and dealing with  
Notification only. Like PINT, PIN will not deal with IP Telephony,  but  
rather  provide requests for services and Notifications from PSTN/IN to 
IP network in order to augment, extend and enrich PSTN. PIN WG would 
focus on the PIN Protocol Requirements and Definition of Notification 
Processing Language (NPL) - a possible extension to CPL, as well
as defining connections of Services to the IN DPs. PIN protocol is a 
specialized protocol used for communication between the  PIN Gateway and 
PIN Servers, which may, potentially, be used for communications between 
PIN Servers and PIN Clients. NPL will allow to build new Notification 
Services and provide means to describe Notification Filters to screen 
PSTN events. Notification Filter  example: Notification for an Attempt 
to Enter Conference from a predefined number in the hours 9 through 17 
only on weekends and holidays. It is quite possible that existing or 
under development protocols (i.e. SIP, PIP, MGCP, etc.) are sufficient 
to support PIN Services, but that determination is for further study by 
the PIN WG.
