IPsec has been standardized for over 5 years, and the use of PKI X.509 
certificates have been specified within the IPsec standards for the 
same rime. However, very few IPsec deployments use certificates. One 
reason is the lack of a certificate profile or description about how 
the various elements of a PKI ought to be constructed and how the 
contents ought to be populated for use with IPsec. In addition, the 
handling of certificates in various IPsec use cases requires better 
description. The lack of such specifications has yielded PKI systems 
whose support for IPsec applications is too obscure, complex, and 
often 
feature incomplete. Also, support within the IPsec systems for 
interaction with the PKI is often equally complex and incomplete, 
leaving deployers without interoperability.

Within IPsec VPNs, the PKI supports authentication of peers through 
digital signatures during security association establishment using 
IKE. 
To date, SCEP and "cut-and-paste" techniques are more commonly used to 
accomplish end entity certificate acquisition for IPsec VPN usage, but 
are better suited to small VPN deployments, and are out of scope for 
this solution. A robust certificate management scheme is needed to 
empower operators in large scale deployment and management efforts. 
Multiple competing and incomplete protocols for certificate 
acquisition, renewal and revocation exist today.  Deployers struggle 
to 
get products that support these technologies to work together nicely 
in 
order to accomplish their goals.

The protocol and PKI operational usages are considered in order to 
define a common, single set of methods (which forces interoperability) 
between PKI systems and IPsec systems for large-scale deployments. The 
requirements address the entire lifecycle for PKI usage within IPsec 
transactions:
pre-authorization of certificate issuance, enrollment process 
(certificate request and retrieval), certificate renewals and changes, 
revocation, validation and repository lookups. They enable an IPsec 
operator to:
   - authorize batches of certificate issuances based on locally 
defined
     criteria
   - provision PKI-based user and/or machine identity to IPsec peers, 
on
     large scale
   - set the corresponding gateway and/or client authorization policy
     for remote access and site-to-site connections
   - establish automatic renewal for certificates
   - ensure timely revocation information is available and retrievable 
Requirements for both the IPsec and the PKI products will be 
addressed. 
The goal is to create a set of requirements from which a specification 
document will be derived. The requirements are carefully designed to 
achieve security without compromising ease of management and 
deployment, even where the deployment involves tens of thousands of 
IPsec users and devices. These requirements will be used to identify a 
specific protocol that may be leveraged to accomplish such large-scale 
deployments.
