Recent work in the IETF have led to the development and
standardization of enhanced network services such as QoS and traffic
engineering. The complexity of these services and the variations in
the capabilities of the devices implementing these services provide a
challenge to anyone trying to configure services within medium- and
large-scale networks.

The working group will define general-purpose objects that facilitate
the manipulation of policies and provisioned objects available through
COPS and COPS-PR.  Where appropriate, these will include frameworks
clarifying the applicability of COPS objects and the best practices
for the definition of additional objects defined in other working
groups.

In particular, the group will address the following work items:

 - A standards track framework document describing the usage of COPS
   in carrying usage reporting and unsolicited state change 
   information between a PDP and a PEP [FEEDBACKFRWK].  

 - A standards track document describing a feedback PIB to be used
   to carry usage/feedback information from the PEP to the PDP
   [FEEDBACKPIB].

 - Complete work on the standards track documents for (a) the data 
   definition language for COPS-PR [SPPI] and (b) the set of core
   data definitions for QoS provisioning [FRWKPIB].

 - A standards track document describing a modular architecture for a
   COPS based Management Framework. The document will address the COPS
   message processing, security and access control and may specify
   examples of how the framework may be implemented.  [COPSFRWK]

 - A standards track document describing a framework or PIB to enable
   the explicit binding of QoS to to authenticated agents, such as 
   corporate entities or individual users. 
   The purpose of this document is to define a set of data structures
   that represent subscriber identity, subscriber credentials, and
   provide support for proxing various authentication strategies. 
   This document will describe the client-server interactions 
   necessary to install identities, bind identities to other
   provisioning components and the credentials necessary to complete
   authentication. Identities may be represented in the data 
   structures defined by this document and may take one of many
   forms. Examples include none (open) partial (snooped by the 
   network device), and  full (provided by an existing authentication
   protocol). Examples of existing protocols include 802.1x, PAP,
   CHAP, EAP, Kerberos, HTTP, TLS, SSL, and SRP.
   [BINDFRWK].

 - An informational document describing the use of COPS over TLS.
   [COPSTLS]

 The working group will continue to document changes to COPS objects
 needed to support any extensions to RSVP and extensions to RVSP
 directly related to usage control. Specifically the working group
 will pursue:

       - A version of draft-ietf-rap-rsvp-newidentity that addresses
          security shortcomings with the current document
          [NEWIDENTITY].

       - A standards track document defining new ErrorValues for the
         RSVP Policy Error Object [RSVPERRVAL].

       - A standards track document defining the framework and
         mechanism for authorizing of RSVP sessions [SESSIONAUTH].

       - A standards track document defining an RSVP Local Policy
         Control Criteria PIB [RSVPPIB].

Documents produced by the working group must fully address all the
security aspects of this type of protocol. In particular, theft and
denial of service threats must be minimized.

The Working Group will not define semantics of objects for any 
specific protocol or technology. Such work will be done 
(if done at all) in protocol or technology specific WGs.

For the work on the [FEEDBACKFWRK] and [FEEDBACKPIB], the WG will
work with other WGs (like AAA WG) to prevent duplication and
overlapping solutions.
