The purpose of this WG is to enable Remote Direct Data Placement (rddp)
capabilities with IP transport protocols, in particular with
SCTP. RDDP capabilities refer to the ability to place data directly
from the NIC into application buffers, without intensive CPU
usage. This strategy avoids the costs of data copying and enables
using IP as a method for high speed buffer to buffer transfer,
allowing IP to replace special purpose networks currently in use.
Remote Direct Memory Access (RDMA) is an example of this concept.

Conceptually, RDDP functionality can be viewed as consisting of two
layers. First the direct data placement capability, which is
accomplished through a tag and a lookup table on the NIC. Above this
core functionality, an RDDP control protocol is needed to specify how
the direct data placement can be used, for example READ and WRITE
commands.

The work of the WG is to accomplish four items:

1) A (transport independent) protocol core to support direct data
   placement from the NIC into specified memory, usually application
   buffers.

2) A (transport independent) protocol core layered on top of the direct
   data placement protocol that specifies control of RDDP.

3) A mapping of the direct data placement protocol onto SCTP,
   for standards track, including a clear applicability statement
   of the expected service from the mapping.

4) A mapping of the direct data placement protocol onto TCP, for
   informational, because TCP's service is a less good match to RDDP,
   including an applicability statement of the issues regarding the
   service available from the mapping.

The working group will ensure that the resulting technology will be
secure and will not enable new attacks on systems supporting RDDP.
 
The WG will not modify existing Internet transport protocols, but
may forward issues it discovers in such transport protocols that
are not full Internet Standards to the appropriate IETF WGs for
their consideration.
