The formation of the Remote Conferencing Working Group is in response
to the need to collect together the bits and pieces necessary to
conduct collaborative work across the Internet. It is the outgrowth of
the recognition of a set of requirements and areas of work identified
at the Santa Fe IETF in November, 1991 and reinforced at the MCNC/NSF
videoconferencing workshop in December, 1991.

The purpose of the Remote Conferencing Working Group is to serve as a
focal point for the many research activities required to bring remote
conferencing over the Internet to a reality and to ensure that a
complete end-to-end OPEN architecture is produced that will enable the
many functional implementations required for remote conferencing to
become a commonplace occurrence among the Internet community members.
The architecture will address both the workstation and conference room
environments and, in addition to video and audio, will cover other
media commonly used in local conferencing such as data, text, still
images and CD-ROM.  In general, the varied forms of conferencing that
can be integrated into user workstations and desktops will be covered.

Specific milestones for this WG are aggressive and defined through
March, 1993. Some likely areas of work are listed for timeframes
beyond then and the WG will probably be in existance for several years
as new technology and increased bandwidth spawn additional
conferencing application opportunities.

The Remote Conferencing WG will focus on producing the conference
session architecture, from conference planning/scheduling to
conference set-up/initiation, maintenance, change, and termination. It
will address multi-point conferencing in a tightly controlled small
conference environment and also cover large broadcast type of
conferences in a loosely controlled environment. The Working Group
will also be a focal point for equipment manufacturers who develop
products such as codecs, workstations and routers. Standards and
interoperability are major focus items.

The deliverable will consist of an architecture description,
supporting protocols, referenced dependent architectures, RFC's,
standards etc, statement of applications supported and guidelines on
network resources required. While the Remote Conferencing WG will
develop portions of the overall architecture, it will depend upon,
influence, work closely with and integrate the results of related work
such as the Connection Control Protocol effort at ISI, the
Audio/Visual Transport WG, IP Multicast and the current research
efforts on network resource management. The WG will ask for/commission
additional separate WG activities as required.
