Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) is a technique whereby a device,
known as an RFID 'reader', can remotely sense the presence of, and
access embedded memory on, a transponder, known as a 'tag'. Tags may be
affixed to objects as a means to track the location and movement of 
said objects within facilities equipped with readers. Tags may also 
include environmental sensors that may capture and report conditions 
to which the tag has been subjected. The tags can be stationary 
(attached to fixed locations in a facility) or mobile (attached to 
things moving about the facility). The readers can be stationary 
(attached to doors, walls, shelving, or scaffolding) or mobile 
(handheld, or vehicle-mounted).

Recently, as a result of the development of standard RF (air) protocols
and through the application of low-cost embedded computing technology,
the implementation of RFID readers has evolved from peripherals,
typically connected to a host computer via a serial port; to standalone
devices supporting TCP/IP stacks, connected via wired (Ethernet) or
wireless (802.11) LAN technology to enterprise computing resources
supporting RFID-enabled client applications. 

We envision a typical RFID deployment comprising of a network of RFID
readers controlled by one or more reader network controller elements
(which may be software in a server, embedded software in a 
router/switch, or a standalone device). These controller elements in
turn are connected to hosts/servers running client applications that
ultimately consume the acquired tag data and management applications
that monitor the operation of the reader network.

This working group will specify a controller-to-reader protocol, the 
Simple Lightweight RFID Reader Protocol, or SLRRP (pronounced 'slurp') 
for use in an IP-based network to convey configuration, control, 
status, and tag information to and from readers. This will be the 
initial priority of the working group.  In the future, the working 
group may specify a set of cooperating functions and possibly 
protocols that achieve the level of operations support and management 
expected of devices in today's IP network infrastructure.  

It is possible that work undertaken in other working groups and even 
other standards bodies (e.g. MIBs, discovery protocols) will be 
referenced by this working group.  It is even possible that entire
deliverables could be satisfied by the work of other working groups 
(e.g. discovery protocols).  This working group will seek to maximize
the use of existing specifications where applicable.  


SLRRP Interaction With Other Standards Bodies:

There are currently two organizations that develop specifications for 
RFID air protocols, ISO and EPCGlobal.  Because the IETF will not 
define a specific RFID air protocol, it is an appropriate venue for 
the development of an air protocol-independent framework for RFID 
reader communications and management.  This is the goal of SLRRP. 

Because this working group seeks to develop operations and protocols 
based on RFID operations defined in publically available documents, 
there is no need for a formal liason between this working group and 
other organizations.
  
Members of the working group are encouraged to participate in the other
standards development forums so that the proper awareness of 
dependencies and cooperating functions can be maintained.
