Steve Waldbusser is TA for SNMP/MIB related matters
  Matt Zekauskas is TA for Transport Retaled matters



The RMON MIB Working Group is chartered to define a set of managed
objects for remote monitoring of networks. These objects will be the
minimum necessary to provide the ability to monitor multiple network
layers of traffic in remote networks; providing fault, configuration,
and performance management, and will be consistent with the SNMP
framework and existing SNMP standards.

The following list of features for this RMON has been previously
discussed in relation to existing RMON functionality and is included
to focus these RMON activities. It is recognized that other issues
may be considered and that certain of the following issues may not
be part of the final specification(s):

  1. Application Performance Measurement

     Monitoring support for the measurement and characterization
     of network application protocols, striving to measure an
     application user's experience as closely as possible.
     The RMON-2 MIB (RFC 2021) contains a protocol directory
     that will be used to identify applications for monitoring
     purposes.

     While it is important to measure the performance of computing
     and network resources, these measurements don't give an insight
     to the actual service delivered to end-users. This end-user
     experience is best measured by the response-time and availability
     of application transactions because users interact directly
     with applications. This working group will create extensions
     to the RMON-2 MIB that will allow Application Performance
     Measurements to be retrieved with SNMP, no matter which
     technology is used to perform the measurements.

     The goal of the working group is to provide a common framework
     and set of MIB objects, within the current RMON framework,
     for the identification and characterization of application
     responsiveness and availability, and the reporting of
     test results produced by such mechanisms.  Common metrics and
     derived metrics will be characterized and reported in a manner
     consistent with the IP Performance Metrics Framework (RFC 2330).

     It is an explicit non-goal of the working group to select
     one or more mechanisms as the preferred or standard RMON
     application performance measurement mechanism. However, it is
     possible that one or more standard mechanisms will be
     developed in the future, after significant implementation
     experience has been gained by the working group.

  2. Differentiated Services Statistics Collection

     Monitoring support for Differentiated Services (DS) statistics
     collection, for the purpose of DS codepoint usage analysis
     and possibly other statistics related to DS deployment and
     performance tuning.

  3. Interface TopN Reporting

     It is often too slow or difficult to determine the
     busiest ports in devices such as high port-density switches,
     using existing RMON mechanisms.
     New monitoring support is needed for quickly determining
     the most congested (highest utilized) physical ports and
     links in an RMON-capable device with multiple interfaces.

  4. TR-RMON MIB Advancement

     The Token Ring RMON MIB (RFC 1513) is ready for standards
     track advancement. An interoperability and deployment survey
     has already been completed, but the MIB must be updated in
     SMIv2 format before it can be advanced on the standards track.


  5. Transport Performance Measurement

     There is a need for standardized means to collect and report
     selectable performance metrics and statistics derived from
     the monitoring of network packets and transport protocol states.
     The monitoring covers both passive and active traffic generation
     sources. Monitoring support for the these measurements can
     provide a drill-down capability to provide insight into the
     performance of the lower-level transactions which comprise the
     overall performance of a network application.

     The goal of the working group is to provide a common framework
     and set of MIB objects, within the current RMON framework,
     for the identification and characterization of transaction-level
     performance, and the reporting of test results produced by such
     mechanisms. Common metrics and derived statistics will be
     characterized and reported in a manner consistent with the
     IP Performance Metrics Framework (RFC 2330).

  6. SMON MIB Advancement

     The SMON MIB (RFC 2613) is ready for standards
     track advancement. An interoperability and deployment survey
     will be completed, and submitted to the IESG.
     It is possible that minor enhancements and corrections to
     RFC 2613 will be made, based on the survey findings and
     working group input.

  7. RMON-2 MIB Advancement

     The RMON-2 MIB (RFC 2021) is ready for standards
     track advancement. An interoperability and deployment survey
     will be completed, and submitted to the IESG.
     It is possible that minor enhancements and corrections to
     RFC 2021 will be made, based on the survey findings and
     working group input.

  8. RMON PI Reference Advancement

     The RMON Protocol Identifiers Reference (RFC 2895) is ready
     for standards track advancement. An interoperability and
     deployment survey will be completed, and submitted to the
     IESG. It is possible that minor enhancements and corrections
     to RFC 2895 will be made, based on the survey findings and
     working group input.

  9. Synthetic Sources for Performance Monitoring

     Mechanisms are needed for the remote control of synthetic
     packet sources and destinations, for the purpose of
     enhancing remote performance monitoring capabilities within
     IP networks and services. These mechanisms must utilize
     the RMON protocol directory for protocol encapsulation
     identification. Any interactions with the
     RMON Framework or dependencies on specific RMON MIB objects
     (if any) will be specified as well.

  10. RMON Framework 

     Documentation is needed which clarifies the remote network 
     monitoring framework, and describes the inter-relationships and 
     dependencies between the various RMON MIB modules. A conceptual 
     model is needed to help administrators and developers better 
     understand data sources, the protocol directory, and the existing 
     RMON statistical collections. Undocumented 'RMON folklore', as 
well 
     as the limitations and appropriate application of various 
     implementation techniques will also be addressed. 

  11. Real-time Application QoS Monitoring MIB

     There is a need to extend the RMON framework to monitor end 
devices 
     such as IP Phones, pagers, Instant Message Clients, Cell Phones, 
     and PDA devices. An end-to-end user experience of the quality of 
     service (QoS) and performance for such an application is a 
     combination of device performance and transport network 
     performance. Monitoring should be performed at the application 
     layer that reflects a specific end user experience on a 
particular 
     IP end point, reflecting specific transport network performance

There is a need to extend the RMON framework to monitor end devices
such as IP Phones, pagers, Instant Message Clients, Cell Phones,
and PDA devices. An end-to-end user experience of the quality of
service (QoS) and performance for such an application is a combination
of device performance and transport network performance. Monitoring
should be performed at the application layer that reflects a specific
end user experience on a particular IP end point, reflecting specific
transport network performance.

This working group will extend the RMON Framework to allow Real-time
Application QoS information of these types of end devices to be
retrieved with SNMP, independent of the technology used to
perform the measurements.

The WG will define a common framework and set of MIB objects,
within the current RMON framework, for the identification and
characterization of application QoS parameters, and the reporting
of the on-going measurement reports produced by these mechanisms.
Common metrics and derived metrics will be characterized and reported
in a manner consistent with the IP Performance Metrics Framework
(RFC 2330).

The WG will also define a set of RAQMON Application level QoS PDUs
to have common formats of reporting statistics between a RAQMON
Data Source and a RAQMON Report Collector. These Common
RAQMON PDUs will be transported over existing protocols, such as
RTCP or SNMP.

The measurement methodology is out of the scope of the RAQMON work
and will be in conformance with the IPPM WG recommendations, and
also may take into account considerations from application-specific
(IM and telephony) WGs as needed. This WG will consider the
cases for transport of RAQMON PDUs, including how RTCP might be
used and still meet security/privacy goals.

Security aspects related to RAQMON reports will be cognizant of
privacy and anonymity issues while being responsive to the needs
of measurement applications.
