This working group focuses on the application of the Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP, RFC 3261) to the suite of services collectively known 
as 
instant messaging and presence (IMP). The IETF has committed to 
producing an interoperable standard for these services compliant to 
the 
requirements for IM outlined in RFC 2779 (including the security and 
privacy requirements there) and in the Common Presence and Instant 
Messaging (CPIM) specification, developed within the IMPP working 
group. As the most common services for which SIP is used share quite a 
bit in common with IMP, the adaptation of SIP to IMP seems a natural 
choice given the widespread support for (and relative maturity
of) the SIP standard.

The primary work of this group will be to generate:

1. A proposed standard SIP extension documenting the transport of 
Instant Messages in SIP, compliant to the requirements for IM outlined 
in RFC 2779, CPIM and in BCP 41 (so that the transport implications of 
the extension with respect to network congestion are considered in the 
design).

2. A proposed standard SIP event package and any related protocol 
mechanisms used to support presence, compliant to the requirements for 
presence outlined in RFC 2779 and CPIM.

3. An architecture for the implementation of a traditional 
buddylist-based instant messaging and presence application with SIP. 
Included might be new mechanisms for message confirmation delivery, 
indications for when a party is in the process of typing a message, 
secure buddylist manipulation operations, and the extension of the 
CPIM 
presence format to describe typical IM states. Each of these 
mechanisms 
will be consistent with a SIP-based architecture, as well as meeting 
the constraints otherwise described in this charter.

All SIMPLE proposals fulfilling these goals must document the mappings 
of their operation to CPIM. Any SIP extensions proposed in the course 
of this development will, after a last call process, be transferred to 
the SIP WG for consideration as formal SIP extensions.

The working group will work within the framework for presence and IM 
described in RFC 2778. The extensions it defines must also be 
compliant 
with the SIP processes for extensions. The group cannot modify 
baseline 
SIP behavior or define a new version of SIP for IM and presence. If 
the 
group determines that any capabilities requiring an extension to SIP 
are needed, the group will seek to define such extensions within the 
SIP working group, and then use them here.

The working group will operate in close cooperation with the IMPP 
working group, which will be completing CPIM in parallel. The working 
group will also cooperate with any other groups defined to standardize 
other presence and IM systems, to ensure maximum sharing of 
information 
and avoid reinvention of the wheel. The working group will cooperate 
with the SIP working group, soliciting reviews to ensure its 
extensions 
meet SIPs requirements. The working group will also collaborate with 
the SIP WG to ensure consistent operation of the SUBSCRIBE and NOTIFY 
methods across the other applications being defined for its use.
