The Session Initiation Protocol Project INvestiGation (SIPPING)
working group is chartered to document the use of SIP for several
applications related to telephony and multimedia, and to develop
requirements for extensions to SIP needed for those applications.
Such requirements will be referred to the SIP working group for
development of any new SIP method, header, or option-tag as described
in Change Policy for SIP (RFC 3467).

Guiding principles for the performance of SIPPING's work will include:

1. Documenting the requirements of specific chartered tasks.

2. Documenting the usage of SIP to solve real problems that need
to be solved in a standardized way. Examples of important
topics identified are the session policy architecture, allowing
network entities to convey policy into an User Agent's
activity; requirements analysis for session border
controllers to determine how best such devices can
operate with SIP usage; guidance on IPv4-IPv6
co-existence support by SIP and SIP-supported media; and 
inclusion of real-time text conversation (ToIP), service 
invocations benefitting hearing and speech impaired users, 
and other SIP equal access services as requirements are proposed. 

3. Looking for commonalities among the chartered tasks and ongoing
SIP-related development, as commonalities may indicate for general,
reusable functionality in SIP.

4. Describing the requirements for any extension determined to pass
there hurdles, and handing the development task to the SIP WG.

5. Developing procedures and requirements for configuration and
delivery of SIP User Profiles

Besides performing needed specification of several applications
of SIP, SIPPING can be seen as also working out use cases that
clarify the role of SIP in the Internet, and help to ensure that
Occam's razor is appropriately applied to SIP usage.

The security of all the deliverables will be of special importance.
The technology for security will be keyed from the SIP Security
specification within RFC 3261, and additional SIP specifications
as they apply.
