Before Internet telephony can become a widely deployed service, a
number of protocols must be deployed. These include signaling and
capabilities exchange, but also include a number of "peripheral"
protocols for providing related services.

The primary purpose of this working group is to develop three such
supportive protocols. They are:

1. User Location. When placing a telephone call to a user, it is
necessary for a client (or a proxy for that client) to determine the
location of the user, so that they can be contacted. This location is
generally of the form of a telephone number or IP address. The caller
starts with either an email style address or a telephone number. These
must be mapped into the location where it is appropriate for the
caller to actually contact the callee. Unlike traditional mappings,
such as DNS, which are fairly static and flat, this mapping depends on
a variety of factors. It can be based on caller preferences (I want
j.doe@company.com at home), callee preferences (connect the caller to
my voicemail if its Bob), and status (connect the caller to my PC if
I'm logged in, cell phone otherwise). Telephone numbers must also be
mapped - 800-555-1212 might be mapped to the IP address of some
directory service, for example. Such a mapping should also support
personal mobility, so that names like j.doe@ieee.org can be mapped to
wherever that individual is currently residing. Such a location
service requires a protocol which can forward user location requests
from server to server. At each server, some local database is accessed
(the type and scope of such accesses our outside the scope of the
working group, and can include anything from finger to LDAP to TCAP)
to determine the next server to forward the request to. The Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP - draft-ietf-mmusic-sip under development in
mmusic) provides much of this functionality already. The IPTEL
working group will define a profile for SIP that adds a few additional
pieces of functionality required for this service. In particular, SIP
handles only email-like identifiers at the moment. Support for
telephone numbers must be added. Additional parameters will also be
required to provide richer user location services. Finally, SIP
currently mixes call control and user location. The IPTEL working
group must separate these two, allowing use of the location service
without call control, which may be handled by other protocols such as
H.323. Of course, the IPTEL working group is not hard set on SIP, and
would entertain other proposals for performing user location. The
output of this work will be a single standards track RFC, likely
defined as an extension to SIP.

2. Call Processing Syntax. As part of the location service just
described, a callee can express preferences about where they would
like to be contacted - home PC, office PC, office telephone, beeper,
etc. In order to allow servers, such as H.323 gatekeepers, to act on
callee preferences, some kind of preference syntax must be
developed. This syntax would be transmitted by the client to the
server, allowing the server to process calls based on client
preferences. The group will develop this syntax, and specify means of
securely transporting and extending it. The result will be a single
standards track RFC.

3. Gateway Attribute Distribution Protocol. When making a call between
an IP host and a PSTN user, a telephony gateway must be used. The
selection of such gateways is based on client expressed preferences,
and availability of gateways. Since gateways outside of the hosts'
autonomous system might be used, a protocol is required to allow
gateways to distribute their attributes (such as PSTN connectivity,
supported codecs, etc.) to entities which must route to the PSTN.  The
group will investigate and design a protocol for this purpose,
generate an Internet Draft, and advance it to RFC if appropriate.
