The SNMPv3 Working Group is chartered to prepare recommendations for
the next generation of SNMP. The goal of the Working Group is to
produce the necessary set of documents that will provide a single
standard for the next generation of core SNMP functions.

During the past several years, there have been a number of activities
aimed at incorporating security and other improvements to SNMP.
Unfortunately, strongly held differences on how to incorporate these
improvements into SNMP prevented the SNMPV2 Working Group from coming
to closure on a single approach. As a result, two different approaches
(commonly called V2u and V2*) have emerged.

The Security and Administrative Framework Evolution for SNMP Advisory
Team (the Advisory Team) was formed to provide a single recommended
approach for SNMP evolution.  The technical starting point for this
Working Group will be the recommended approach provided by the Advisory
Team.

This approach provides for the convergence of concepts and technical
elements of V2u and V2*.  The SNMPv3 Working Group is not starting new
work and will use as many concepts, technical elements and
documentation as practical from the V2u and V2* activities.  Previous
delays in providing a single standard for the next generation of SNMP
core functions dictate that the Working Group move forward as quickly
as possible to document and publish Internet Drafts and RFC's.  To this
end, the Working Group will make use of as much existing documentation
as practical. Additionally, functional changes beyond those needed to
provide a single approach will be strongly discouraged.

Timely completion of a single approach for SNMPv3 is crucial for the
continued success of SNMP.  Recognizing the need for prompt completion,
the following objectives are provided to the Working Group:

- accommodate the wide range of operational environments with
  differing management demands;

- facilitate the need to transition from previous, multiple protocols
  to SNMPv3;

- facilitate the ease of setup and maintenance activities.


Note: SNMPv3 planned specifications:

	SNMPv3 Modules and Interface Definitions
	SNMPv3 Message Processing and Control Module Specification
	SNMPv3 Security Model Module Specification
	SNMPv3 Local Processing Mosule Specification
	SNMPv3 Proxy Specification
