As more and more resources become available on the Internet, there are 
immediate and pressing needs for some applications to acquire spatial 
location information about certain resources or entities. These 
applications include navigation, emergency services, management of 
equipment in the field, and other location based applications.

The objective of the Spatial Location WG is to develop a payload format 
to solve the following problem: How can an application represent the 
spatial location of an identifiable entity, via or represented on the 
Internet?

The payload shall define the spatial location in (at least) a 
geo-centric three dimensional coordinate representation (with a 
timestamp) of a uniquely identifiable entity.

The work items for the Spatial Location (SLO) Payload are:

1. Spatial Location Representations. For interoperability reasons, a 
   single absolute/default format shall be supported by all SLO-aware 
   entities. This format shall have (at least) Longitude, Latitude, 
   Altitude and a Timestamp when these values were last known. In
   addition, a framework for adding any optional spatial location 
   representations shall be specified. Though, this group shall not 
   define any optional spatial location representation. Defining 
   optional representation(s) can be a future work effort.

2. SLO Payload Coding Mechanism. There must be a coding mechanism 
   selected/designed for coding/decoding SLO Payload. The coding 
   mechanism must be supported by all SLO-aware entities.

3. Investigating the requirements of SLO payload on application and 
   carrier protocols. The investigation by this group will focus
   on:

   - Representation Negotiation Mechanism Requirements,

   - Requirements of Server Discovery,

   - Transport related Security, QoS and Policy Requirements,  etc.

   - Requirements for Applications to utilize SLO Payload

What this group will not focus on during the initial chartering,
shall be the following:

    - Descriptive Location

    - Location Assisting

    - Generic Measurements

    - Non-earth based location systems (ex: heliocentric)
