Syslog is a de-facto standard for logging system events. However, the
protocol component of this event logging system has not been formally
documented. While the protocol has been very useful and scalable, it 
has some known security problems which were documented in the 
INFORMATIONAL RFC 3164.

The goal of this working group is to address the security and integrity
problems, and to standardize the syslog protocol, transport, and a 
select set of mechanisms in a manner that considers the ease of 
migration between and the co-existence of existing versions and the 
standard.

Reviews have shown that there are very few similarities between the 
message formats generated by heterogeneous systems. In fact, the only 
consistent commonality between messages is that all of them contain 
the <PRI> at the start. Additional testing has shown that as long as 
the <PRI> is present in a syslog message, all tested receivers will 
accept any generated message as a valid syslog message. In designing a 
standard syslog message format, this Working Group will retain the 
<PRI> at the start of the message and will introduce protocol 
versioning. Along these same lines, many different charsets have been 
used in syslog messages observed in the wild but no indication of the 
charset has been given in any message. The Working Group also feels 
that multiple charsets will not be beneficial to the community;
much code would be needed to distinguish and interpret different 
charsets. For compatibility with existing implementations, the Working 
Group will allow that messages may still be sent that do not indicate 
the charset used. However, the Working Group will recommend that 
messages contain a way to identify the charset used for the message, 
and will also recommend a single default charset.

syslog has traditionally been transported over UDP and this WG has 
already defined RFC 3195 for the reliable transport for the syslog 
messages. The WG will separate the UDP transport from the protocol so 
that others may define additional transports in the future.

The threats that this WG will primarily address are modification,
disclosure, and masquerading. A secondary threat is message stream
modification. Threats that will not be addressed by this WG are DoS and
traffic analysis. The primary attacks may be thwarted by a secure
transport. However, it must be remembered that a great deal of the
success of syslog has been attributed to its ease of implementation and
relatively low maintenance level. The Working Group will consider those
factors, as well as current implementations, when deciding upon a 
secure transport. The secondary threat of message stream modification 
can be addressed by a mechanism that will verify the end-to-end 
integrity and sequence of messages. The Working Group feels that these 
aspects may be addressed by a dissociated signature upon sent messages.

- A document will be produced that describes a standardized syslog 
protocol. A mechanism will also be defined in this document that will 
provide a means to convey structured data.

- A document will be produced that describes a standardized UDP 
transport for syslog.

- A document will be produced that requires a secure transport for the
delivery of syslog messages.

- A document will be produced to describe the MIB for syslog entities.

- A document will be produced that describes a standardized mechanism 
to sign syslog messages to provide integrity checking and source
authentication.
