This BOF will discuss plans to establish an Internet Traffic Engineering 
Working Group. Internet Traffic Engineering is defined as that aspect of 
Internet network engineering which is concerned with the performance 
optimization of operational networks. It encompasses the application of 
technology and scientific principles to the measurement, modeling, 
characterization, and control of Internet traffic, and the application 
of such knowledge and techniques to achieve specific performance 
objectives, including the reliable and expeditious movement of traffic 
through the network, the efficient utilization of network resources, and 
the planning of network capacity.

The proposed WG intends to define, develop, recommend, and specify
principles, techniques, and mechanisms for traffic engineering in the
Internet.  The WG will also serve as a general forum for discussing
possible improvements to IETF protocols to advance the Traffic 
Engineering function.

The WG will focus specifically on the control aspects of intra-domain
Internet traffic engineering. This includes control aspects pertaining
to intra-domain routing and control aspects pertaining to intra-domain
network resource allocation. The WG may also consider solutions to the
problem of traffic engineering across autonomous systems boundaries.

The first work item for the proposed WG will be to a produce a
comprehensive framework document which articulates the general 
principles and requirements for Internet traffic engineering.

The second work item for the proposed WG will be to produce an 
informational document which specifies a generic representation of
common objects, functions, and data-sets needed for traffic engineering.

The third work item for the proposed WG will be to specify protocols, as 
needed, to allow different traffic engineering control implementations 
to interoperate.

The proposed WG will interact with other areas of IETF activity whose
scope intersect with the definition of traffic engineering. This 
includes various working groups in the Routing Area, the Transport Area, 
and the Operations and Management Area.
