The Telnet Security Working Group is a followup to the recent approval
of the Telnet Authentication and Encryption options as Proposed
Standards.

Background:

Work on the Telnet Authentication and Encryption options began in the
early 90s.  Unfortunately, due to various forces the effort to
finalize these options and move them to the IETF Standards Track did
not occur until this past year. In the meantime numerous
implementations supporting these options with a wide variety of
authentication protocols and encryption algorithms were developed and
distributed. The most recent editors of the Authentication and
Encryption Option RFCs believed it was necessary to plug holes in the
protocols and move them to standards track before continuing their
development.

While the Telnet Authentication option provides strong authentica-
tion in a secure manner, the Telnet Encryption option leaves much
to be desired. While the encryption provides privacy to the telnet
data stream it does not provide integrity protection.  The TN3270
Working Group has been working on the Telnet START_TLS option
which does provide significant improvements in the strength of
the ciphers used for encryption and provides integrity protection
as well as privacy for the connection.

Work has also been done to provide for protection of X Windows
System data communication via the Telnet channel incorporating
strong authentication of the X Windows sessions. [Telnet FORWARD_X]

There is deployed support for Kerberos 5 that doesn't include the Krb5 
API upon which [Telnet AUTH KRB5] is based.  However, these products do 
support GSSAPI-KRB5. It is therefore necessary for a GSSAPI-KRB5 Telnet 
AUTH method to be implemented in order to interoperate with the 
authentication subsystems in these deployed products.

There is also some outstanding work on integrating the three
remaining features of the BSD R-protocols not supported by Telnet
[TELNET RCMD]:

o STDERR redirection;

o SIGNAL redirection;

o Command execution without shell access.
