The Internet Open Trading Protocol is an interoperable framework for
Internet commerce. It is optimized for the case where the buyer and
the merchant do not have a prior acquaintance and is payment system
independent. It can encapsulate and support payment systems such as
SET, Mondex, secure channel card payment, GeldKarte, etc. IOTP is
able to handle cases where such merchant roles as the shopping site,
the payment handler, the deliverer of goods or services, and the
provider of customer support are performed by different Internet
sites.

The working group will document interoperability experience with
IOTP version 1 (which has been published as an Informational RFC)
and develop the requirements and specifications for IOTP version 2.
Version 2 will make use of an independent Messaging Layer and utilize
standard XML Digital Signatures. Selection of other items for
inclusion in version requirements 2 is to be from the following:

- Dynamic Definition of Trading Sequences

- Offer Request Block

- Improved Problem Resolution (extend to cover presentation of
  signed receipt to customer support party, etc.)
 
- Ability to indicate and handle a payment protocol not
  tunneled through IOTP

- Support for wallet servers

- Repeated/ongoing payments - Server to Server messages

- The ability to add both fields and attributes to trading blocks

- Collaboration with other protocols such as ECML.

The following is out of scope for IOTP version 2:

- legal or regulatory issues surrounding the implementation of
  the protocol or information systems using it.

- design of an XML Messaging Layer

The working group will specify a Secure Channel Credit Debit syntax
that can be used for financial card payments in connection with
IOTP.

The working group will specify requirements and specifications for
Generic Rights Trading.

The working group will specify requirements for and then a syntax
and processing model of ECML (Electronic Commerce Modeling Language)
V2.
