The Transport Area receives occasional proposals for the development
and publication of RFCs dealing with transport topics that are not in
scope of an existing working group or do not justify the formation of
a new working group. TSVWG will serve as the forum for developing
such work items in the IETF.

The TSVWG mailing list is an open discussion forum for such work
items, when they arise. The working group meets if there are active
proposals that require discussion. The working group milestones are
updated as needed to reflect the current work items and their
associated milestones.

The currently active TSVWG work items mostly fall under the following
topics:

(A) Maintenance of the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP),
which involves bug fixes to the SCTP specifications and their
progression along the standards track. This work item also includes a
small number of modular extensions to SCTP. Currently, these include
SCTP-ADDIP, SCTP-AUTH and SCTP-PADDING, as well as socket API and
threat analysis documents. In order to maintain stable
specifications, additional work on SCTP in TSVWG requires Area
Director approval.

(B) Maintenance of the Resource Reservation Protocol (RSVP), which
involves bug fixes to the RSVP specifications and their progression
along the standards track. This work item may also include a small
number of extensions to RSVP or advisory documents to address
specific application scenarios. In order to maintain stable
specifications, additional work on RSVP in TSVWG requires Area
Director approval.

(C) Maintenance of IP Differentiated Services (DiffServ) mechanisms,
which involves mostly advisory documents on the use of DiffServ in
specific application scenarios. Other work items related to DiffServ
require Area Director approval.

(D) Selected other work items, which are mostly in TSVWG for historic
reasons. These include an extended statistics MIB for TCP and the
quick-start mechanism for TCP and IP. Additional work that does not
fall under one of the above topics in TSVWG must satisfy four
conditions: (1) WG consensus on the suitability and projected quality
of the proposed work item. (2) A core group of WG participants with
sufficient energy and expertise to advance the work item according to
the proposed schedule. (3) Commitment from the WG as a whole to
provide sufficient and timely review of the proposed work item. (4)
Agreement by the ADs, who, depending on the scope of the proposed
work item, may decide that an IESG review is needed first.
