The TUBA Working Group will work on extending the Internet Protocol
suite and architecture by increasing the number of end-systems which
can be effectively addressed and routed.  The TUBA effort will expand
the ability to route Internet packets by using addresses which support
more hierarchy than the current Internet Protocol (IP) address space.
TUBA specifies the continued use of Internet transport protocols, in
particular TCP and UDP, but specifies their encapsulation in ISO 8473
(CLNP) packets.  This will allow the continued use of Internet
application protocols such as FTP, SMTP, TELNET, etc. An enhancement
to the current system is mandatory due to the limitations of the
current 32-bit IP addresses.  TUBA seeks to upgrade the current system
by a transition from the use of IPv4 to
ISO/IEC 8473 (CLNP) and the corresponding large Network Service Access
Point address space.

In addition to protocol layering issues and ``proof of concept'' work,
the TUBA approach will place significant emphasis on the engineering
and operational requirements of a large, global, multilateral public
data network.  TUBA will work to maximize interoperatability with the
routing and addressing architecture of the global CLNP infrastructure.
The TUBA Working Group will work closely with the IETF NOOP and
OSI IDRP for IP Over IP Working Groups to coordinate a viable CLNP-based
Internet which supports the applications which Internet users depend on
such as TELNET, FTP, SMTP, NFS, X, etc.  The TUBA Working Group will also
work collaboratively with communities which are using CLNP, and will
consider issues such as interoperability,
applications coexisting on top of multiple transports, and the
evolution of global public connectionless datagram networks, network
management and instrumentation using CLNP and TUBA, and impact on
routing architecture and protocols given the TUBA transition.

The TUBA Working Group will consider how the TUBA scheme will support
transition from the current IP address space to the future NSAP
address space without discontinuity of service, although different
manufacturers, service providers, and sites will make the transition
at different times. In particular, the way in which implementations
relying on current 32-bit IP addresses will migrate must be
considered.  TUBA will ensure that IP addresses can be assigned, for
as long as they are used, independently of geographical and routing
considerations. One option is to embed IP addresses in NSAP addresses,
possibly as the NSAP end-system identifier. Whatever scheme is chosen
must run in a majority of *-GOSIPs and other NSAP spaces. The TUBA
strategy will require a new mapping in the DNS from NAMEs to NSAP
addresses.

The rationale RFC (RFC 1347) documents issues of transition and
coexistence, among unmodified IPv4 hosts and hosts which support
TUBA hosts.  Hosts wishing full Internet connectivity will need to
support TUBA.

