Network access technologies for wired and wireless mediums are
evolving rapidly. With the rapid growth in the number and type of
devices and terminals that support IP stacks and can access the
Internet, users can potentially use a single device having the
capability of attaching via different multiple access mediums and
technologies to interface to the network.
The model for providing the users' information to the
network for authentication, authorization or accounting needs to be
the same and NOT be tied in to the underlying access type.

Currently the authentication mechanisms in PPP are being used for
many wired access scenarios as well as some wireless access, which
requires using PPP framing for the data packets. This is not viewed as
the optimal solution in the cases where framing protocols already
exist. Also, IEEE 802 is working on 802.1X which provides EAP 
authentication limited to IEEE 802 link layers.

The User Network AAA Protocol (UNAP) working group's primary task
is to define a user network AAA protocol that allows:

- A device (on behalf of a user) to authenticate to an agent  in the 
  local network. The agent is called Authentication Agent in this 
  charter.

- The device to discover the IP address of the AA.

- The AA to use either local mechanisms/knowledge, or the AAA
  infrastructure, to authenticate the device.

- Outside of the scope of the protocol, allows for the AA to install
  access control mechanisms in the network, based on the results of
  the AAA protocol exchanges. This follows the model of current Radius 
  being able to provide filtering rules to NASes.

The working group will also provide documentation on

- Requirements placed on the protocol (in requirements draft)

- Chosen approach for handling the security issues and which existing
  security mechanisms that are chosen for the protocol. (in framework 
  draft)

- What assumptions the protocol is making on the AAA infrastructure e.g.
  in terms of security. (in framework draft)
- The relative location of the AA and any access control functions in
  the network and how their location affects the performance and 
  scalability   of the AA solution, as well as the tradeoffs in the 
  level of access control enforcement. (in framework draft)

- The relationship between the UNAP protocol and e.g. PPP and 802.1X
  in deployment where both might be viewed as useful.
  (in "interactions" draft)

A naive view of a UNAP protocol would just be to define how to carry
EAP (RFC 2284) messages in an IP based protocol. However, EAP makes
certain assumptions about PPP like link-layers such as:

- The link-layer is point-to-point i.e. a single NAS or Access Router
  is involved in the EAP exchange. For UNAP there is a desire to be
  able to support redundant ARs on multi-access link layers where 
  inbound   and/or outbound packets might use more than one AR.

- The link-layer providing a disconnect indication. UNAP should not 
  make this assumption. The assumption affects both the ability to tell
  when the session has ended from an accounting perspective, and it 
  affects the frequency at which the device needs to be reauthenticated.

A possible way to address the need for more frequent re-authentication
is to have the first authentication, using the AAA infrastructure
and the assumed shared secret between the device and its AAA home
domain, create a security association between the device and the AA.
Then re-authentication can be done using this security association
without involving the AAA infrastructure. Note that this local security
association is between a pair of entities: the device and the AA. It is
not intended to be viewed as some general security association between
the device and the operator of the access network. In fact, such general
security associations are outside the scope of UNAP.

The WG will not directly work on solutions relating to mobility of
the device. However, it is noted that the ability to re-authenticate
locally with the AA, can be an important element in allowing efficient
handling of mobile devices.

The UNAP protocol needs reliability and congestion control, taking into
account that the UNAP protocol needs to be able to operate over
multiple router hops. The congestion control principles are documented
in RFC 2914.

The WG will not invent new security protocols and mechanism but instead
will use existing mechanisms. For example, already specified EAP
methods. In particular, the WG will not define authentication 
protocols, key distribution or key agreement protocols, or key derivation.

The protocol must support both IPv4 and IPv6, but given that the
MOBILEIP WG is building Mobile IPv4 specific solutions to this problem,
the urgency for solutions are likely to be higher for IPv6. The protocol
must not assume a particular method of IP address configuration. In
particular, it must not interfere with standard techniques and 
protocols like IPv6 stateless addrconf (including the temporary
addresses specified RFC 3041) and DHCP. This implies that the UNAP
needs to be independent of IP address configuration.
