The global deployment of IPv6 is underway, creating an IPv4/IPv6
Internet consisting of IPv4-only, IPv6-only and IPv4/IPv6 networks and
nodes. This deployment must be properly handled to avoid the division
of the Internet into separate IPv4 and IPv6 networks while ensuring
addressing and connectivity for all IPv4 and IPv6 nodes.

The IPv6 Operations Working Group (v6ops) develops guidelines for the
operation of a shared IPv4/IPv6 Internet and provides operational
guidance on how to deploy IPv6 into existing IPv4-only networks,
as well as into new network installations.

The main focus of the v6ops WG is to look at the immediate
deployment issues; more advanced stages of deployment and transition
are a lower priority.

The goals of the v6ops working group are:

1. Solicit input from network operators and users to identify
operational issues with the IPv4/IPv6 Internet, and
determine solutions or workarounds to those issues. These issues
will be documented in Informational or BCP RFCs, or in
Internet-Drafts.

This work should primarily be conducted by those areas and WGs
which are responsible and best fit to analyze these problems, but
v6ops may also cooperate in focusing such work.

2. Publish Informational or BCP RFCs that identify potential security
risks in the operation of shared IPv4/IPv6 networks, and document
operational practices to eliminate or mitigate those risks.

This work will be done in cooperation with the Security area and
other relevant areas or working groups.

3. As a particular instance of (1) and (2), provide feedback to
the IPv6 WG regarding portions of the IPv6 specifications that
cause, or are likely to cause, operational or security concerns,
and work with the IPv6 WG to resolve those concerns. This feedback
will be published in Internet-Drafts or RFCs.

4. Publish Informational or BCP RFCs that identify and analyze 
solutions
for deploying IPv6 within common network environments, such as
ISP Networks, Enterprise Networks, Unmanaged Networks (Home/Small
Office), and Cellular Networks.

These documents should serve as useful guides to network
operators and users on possible ways how to deploy IPv6 within their
existing IPv4 networks, as well as in new network installations.

These documents should not be normative guides for IPv6 deployment,
and the primary intent is not capture the needs for new solutions,
but rather describe which approaches work and which do not.

IPv6 operational and deployment issues with specific protocols or
technologies (such as Applications, Transport Protocols, Routing
Protocols, DNS or Sub-IP Protocols) are the primary responsibility of
the groups or areas responsible for those protocols or technologies.
However, the v6ops WG may provide input to those areas/groups, as
needed, and cooperate with those areas/groups in reviewing solutions
to IPv6 operational and deployment problems.

Future work items within this scope will be adopted by the WG only if
there is a substantial expression of interest from the community and
if the work clearly does not fit elsewhere in the IETF.

There must be a continuous expression of interest for the WG to work
on a particular work item. If there is no longer sufficient interest
in the WG in a work item, the item may be removed from the list of WG
items.

Specifying any protocols or transition mechanisms is out of scope of
the WG.
