A personal address book (PAB) contains a read/write copy of attributes 
describing a user's interpersonal contacts. This is distinct from a 
directory which contains a primarily read-only copy of users within an 
organization. While these two data objects share a large number of 
common attributes, their use and access patterns are fundamentally 
different. The IETF has a standards-track data format (vCard) which 
has been successfully used to interchange both personal-address-book 
and user directory entry data objects. However, due to the lack of a 
standard access control model for LDAP, the lack of a standard LDAP 
schema and DIT-model for vCard PAB objects, and the different access 
patterns for PAB data (as opposed to directory data), the use 
of LDAP as an access protocol for PABs has had mixed results in 
practice. Moreover, the vCard format has been extended by many parties 
and the current specification is ambiguous for some objects.

If the deployed protocols related to interpersonal communication are 
viewed as a component-based system, there are a number of points in 
the system that would benefit from a standards track access protocol 
for personal address book data. 
This includes:

* Mail User Agents use PAB data to assist outgoing email addressing 
and may use vCard attachments to transport PAB data between users.
* Calendar User Agents use PAB data to invite attendees to events
* Instant Messaging User Agents can provide additional information 
about a user's buddies if they can be associated with a user's PAB 
entry.
* A server-side Sieve engine with the spamtest/virustest extension 
would benefit from access to a user's PAB to provide per-user white 
list capabilities.
* Various deployed challenge-response mechanisms for email present in 
Mail Transfer Agents, such as TMDA, would be improved by a PAB-based 
white list.
* Mobile device synchronization software might be simplified by a 
single cross-platform PAB access protocol.
* A voice conference or IP telephony system could access a user's PAB 
to provide name-based or nickname-based dialing.


This WG will produce the following outputs:

(1) A revision of the vCard specification (RFC2426) at proposed 
standard status. This revision shall include other vCard standardized 
extensions (RFC 2739, 4770) and extensions assisting synchronization 
technologies (for example, a per-entry UUID or per-attribute sequence 
number). Other extensions shall be considered either in the base 
specification or in additional documents.

(2) An address book access protocol leveraging the vCard data format. 
The Internet-draft draft-daboo-carddav will be the starting point.
The WG is explicitly cautioned to keep the base specification feature 
set small with an adequate extension mechanism, as failure to do so 
was a problem for previous PAB efforts (ACAP). The WG will consider 
arguments of the form "feature X must be in the base feature set 
because ..." with great skepticism.

These documents will consider security implications carefully. The WG 
will consider developing a mechanism that provides the ability to 
check if an email address (or im address, etc) is in the user's PAB 
without providing unrestricted access to all of the user's PAB data. 
The WG should also consider developing a mechanism that allows the 
user to grant this limited permission to a third-party service (such 
as a server-based Sieve engine) for white-list purposes.

Once the primary outputs are complete, the WG will consider the 
following secondary outputs:

(3) An XML schema which is semantically identical to vCard in all ways 
and can be mechanically translated to and from vCard format without 
loss of data. While vCard has deployed successfully and will remain 
the preferred interchange format, a standard XML schema which 
preserves vCard semantics might make vCard data more accessible to XML-
centric technologies such as AJAX and XSLT. Such a standard format 
would be preferable to multiple proprietary XML schemas, 
particularly if vCard semantics were lost by some of them and a lossy 
gateway problem resulted.

(4) Identifying useful deployed vCard vendor extensions and creating 
standards track versions of those extensions.

(5) Cooperate with the Sieve WG to produce a Sieve extension for 
address book Sieve tests.

(6) LDAP mapping to the new vCard format without loss of data.
