This Working Group will produce a set of three documents that describe
the Management Information Base for X.25.  The first document will
specify the objects for the X.25 Link Layer. The second document will
specify the objects for the X.25 Packet Layer.  The third document will
specify the objects for managing IP over X.25.  The Working Group need
not consider the Physical Layer because the ``Definition of Managed
Objects for RS-232-like Hardware Devices'' already defines sufficient
objects for the Physical Layer of a traditional X.25 stack.  Any
changes needed at the Physical Layer will be addressed as part of that
activity.

The X.25 object definitions will be based on ISO documents 7776 and
8208 however nothing should preclude their use on other similar or
interoperable protocols (i.e., implementations based on CCITT
specifications).

The objects in the Link and Packet Layer documents, along with the
RS-232-like document, should work together to define the objects
necessary to manage a traditional X.25 stack.  These objects will be
independent of any client using the X.25 service.  Both of these
documents assume the interface table as defined in MIB-II contains
entries for the Link and Packet Layer interfaces.  Thus these documents
will define tables of media specific objects which will have a one to
one mapping with interfaces of ifType ddn-x25, rfc877-x25, or lapb.
The objects for the IP to X.25 convergence functions will be defined
analogously with the ipNetToMedia objects in MIB II.

The Working Group will endeavor to make each layer independent from
other layers.  The Link Layer will be independent of any Packet Layer
protocol above it and should be capable of managing an ISO 7776 (or
similar) Link Layer provider serving any client.  Likewise the X.25
Packet Layer objects should be independent of the Link Layer below it
and should be capable of managing an ISO 8208 (or similar) Packet Layer
serving any client.

The Working Group will also produce a third document specifying the
objects for managing IP traffic over X.25.  These objects will reside
in their own table but will be associated with the X.25 interfaces used
by IP.  These objects will not address policy decisions or other
implementation specific operations associated with X.25 connection
management decisions except as explicitly described in existing
standards.  These objects will manage the packet flow between IP and
the X.25 Packet Layer specifically including observation of packet
routing and diagnosis of error conditions.  Progress on the Link and
Packet Layer documents will not depend on progress of the IP over X.25
document.  The IP over X.25 document will proceed on a time available basis after work on the Link and Packet Layer documents and as such the Link and Packet Layers may be completed before the IP over X.25 work.

All documents produced will be for use by SNMP and will be consistent
with other SNMP objects, conventions, and definitions (such as Concise
MIB format).  To the extent feasible, the object definitions will be
consistent with other network management definitions.  In particular
ISO/IEC CD 10733 will be considered when defining the objects for the
X.25 Packet Layer.

